social-plus-sdk/video-new/core-concepts/streaming-basics.mdx, before:

---
title: "Streaming Basics"
description: "Fundamental concepts of live streaming with Social+ Video SDK including stream lifecycle, states, and core principles"
---

# Streaming Basics

Understanding the fundamentals of live streaming is essential for effectively implementing Social+ Video SDK. This guide covers core concepts, stream lifecycle, and basic principles that apply across all platforms.

## What is Live Streaming?

Live streaming is the real-time transmission of video and audio content over the internet. With Social+ Video SDK, you can:

- **Broadcast**: Create and transmit live video content
- **View**: Watch live streams in real-time
- **Interact**: Engage with streams through comments and reactions
- **Record**: Automatically save streams for later playback

## Stream Architecture

### Basic Components

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Broadcaster] --> B[Social+ Video SDK]
    B --> C[Streaming Server]
    C --> D[CDN Network]
    D --> E[Viewers]
    
    F[Recording Service] --> G[Playback System]
    C --> F
```

**Key Components:**
- **Broadcaster**: The user creating and transmitting the stream
- **Streaming Server**: Social+ infrastructure that processes the stream
- **CDN Network**: Content delivery network for global distribution
- **Viewers**: Users watching the live stream
- **Recording Service**: Automatic recording for playback

## Stream Lifecycle

Understanding the stream lifecycle is crucial for proper implementation:

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Stream States">
### Stream States

Every stream goes through these states:

```typescript
enum StreamStatus {
    IDLE = "idle",           // Stream created but not started
    LIVE = "live",           // Currently broadcasting
    ENDED = "ended",         // Broadcasting stopped, processing
    RECORDED = "recorded"    // Available for playback
}
```

**State Transitions:**

1. **IDLE** → **LIVE**: When broadcasting starts
2. **LIVE** → **ENDED**: When broadcasting stops
3. **ENDED** → **RECORDED**: When processing completes

### State Management

```typescript
// Monitor stream state changes
streamRepository.getStreamById(streamId).listen((stream) => {
    switch (stream.status) {
        case StreamStatus.IDLE:
            console.log('Stream ready to start');
            break;
        case StreamStatus.LIVE:
            console.log('Stream is live');
            notifyViewers();
            break;
        case StreamStatus.ENDED:
            console.log('Stream ended, processing...');
            showProcessingMessage();
            break;
        case StreamStatus.RECORDED:
            console.log('Stream available for playback');
            enablePlayback();
            break;
    }
});
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Lifecycle Events">
### Key Lifecycle Events

Monitor these events for proper stream management:

```typescript
interface StreamEvents {
    onStreamCreated: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamStarted: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamEnded: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamRecorded: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamError: (error: StreamError) => void;
}

// Event handling example
const handleStreamEvents = {
    onStreamCreated: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream created: ${stream.streamId}`);
        // Initialize UI, prepare resources
    },
    
    onStreamStarted: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream started: ${stream.title}`);
        // Notify viewers, update UI
    },
    
    onStreamEnded: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream ended: ${stream.streamId}`);
        // Clean up resources, show end screen
    },
    
    onStreamRecorded: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream recorded: ${stream.playbackUrl}`);
        // Enable playback, notify users
    },
    
    onStreamError: (error) => {
        console.error(`Stream error: ${error.message}`);
        // Handle errors, show fallback UI
    }
};
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Core Streaming Concepts

### Resolution and Quality

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Standard Resolutions">
**Supported Resolutions:**

| Quality | Resolution | Aspect Ratio | Bitrate | Use Case |
|---------|------------|--------------|---------|----------|
| **SD** | 480 × 854 | 9:16 | 1.2 Mbps | Mobile, low bandwidth |
| **HD** | 720 × 1280 | 9:16 | 2.5 Mbps | Balanced quality |
| **FHD** | 1080 × 1920 | 9:16 | 5.0 Mbps | High quality |

```typescript
// Set video quality
const videoConfig = {
    resolution: {
        width: 1080,
        height: 1920
    },
    bitrate: 5000000, // 5 Mbps
    frameRate: 30
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Adaptive Streaming">
**Adaptive Bitrate Streaming:**

The SDK automatically adjusts quality based on:
- Network conditions
- Device capabilities
- Viewer preferences

```typescript
// Enable adaptive streaming
const adaptiveConfig = {
    enableAdaptiveBitrate: true,
    qualityLevels: [
        { resolution: { width: 480, height: 854 }, bitrate: 1200000 },
        { resolution: { width: 720, height: 1280 }, bitrate: 2500000 },
        { resolution: { width: 1080, height: 1920 }, bitrate: 5000000 }
    ]
};
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Latency and Performance

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Latency Types">
**Understanding Latency:**

- **Glass-to-Glass**: Complete end-to-end delay (5-15 seconds typical)
- **Network Latency**: Time for data transmission (1-3 seconds)
- **Processing Latency**: Encoding/decoding time (1-2 seconds)
- **Buffer Latency**: Playback buffering (2-10 seconds)

```typescript
// Optimize for low latency
const lowLatencyConfig = {
    bufferSize: 'small',
    keyFrameInterval: 1, // 1 second
    enableFastStart: true,
    prioritizeLatency: true
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Performance Optimization">
**Performance Best Practices:**

```typescript
class StreamOptimizer {
    optimizeForDevice() {
        const deviceCapabilities = this.getDeviceCapabilities();
        
        return {
            resolution: this.selectOptimalResolution(deviceCapabilities),
            bitrate: this.calculateOptimalBitrate(deviceCapabilities),
            frameRate: deviceCapabilities.supportsHighFrameRate ? 30 : 24
        };
    }
    
    private getDeviceCapabilities() {
        return {
            processingPower: this.assessProcessingPower(),
            networkSpeed: this.measureNetworkSpeed(),
            batteryLevel: this.getBatteryLevel(),
            supportsHardwareEncoding: this.checkHardwareSupport()
        };
    }
}
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Stream Management

### Creating Streams

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Basic Stream Creation">
```typescript
// Create a basic stream
const createBasicStream = async () => {
    try {
        const stream = await streamRepository.createStream({
            title: 'My Live Stream',
            description: 'Broadcasting live from my app',
            isSecure: false
        });
        
        console.log('Stream created:', stream.streamId);
        return stream;
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Failed to create stream:', error);
        throw error;
    }
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Advanced Stream Configuration">
```typescript
// Create stream with advanced configuration
const createAdvancedStream = async () => {
    const streamConfig = {
        title: 'Professional Broadcast',
        description: 'High-quality live streaming event',
        
        // Security settings
        isSecure: true,
        allowedViewers: ['user1', 'user2'], // Optional viewer restriction
        
        // Quality settings
        maxResolution: { width: 1920, height: 1080 },
        targetBitrate: 4000000,
        
        // Recording settings
        enableRecording: true,
        recordingQuality: 'high',
        
        // Metadata
        tags: ['live', 'professional', 'event'],
        category: 'education',
        
        // Scheduling (optional)
        scheduledStartTime: new Date('2024-12-01T10:00:00Z'),
        estimatedDuration: 3600 // 1 hour in seconds
    };
    
    const stream = await streamRepository.createStream(streamConfig);
    return stream;
};
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Stream Discovery

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Querying Streams">
```typescript
// Get streams by status
const getLiveStreams = () => {
    return streamRepository.getStreams()
        .status([StreamStatus.LIVE])
        .sortBy('createdAt', 'desc')
        .limit(20)
        .build();
};

// Get recorded streams
const getRecordedStreams = () => {
    return streamRepository.getStreams()
        .status([StreamStatus.RECORDED])
        .sortBy('viewCount', 'desc')
        .build();
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Search and Filtering">
```typescript
// Advanced stream search
const searchStreams = (query: string, filters: StreamFilters) => {
    return streamRepository.getStreams()
        .search(query)
        .tags(filters.tags)
        .category(filters.category)
        .dateRange(filters.startDate, filters.endDate)
        .minViewCount(filters.minViewers)
        .sortBy(filters.sortBy, filters.sortOrder)
        .build();
};

// Usage example
const popularEducationStreams = searchStreams('tutorial', {
    category: 'education',
    tags: ['tutorial', 'learning'],
    minViewers: 100,
    sortBy: 'viewCount',
    sortOrder: 'desc'
});
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Best Practices

### 1. Resource Management

```typescript
class StreamResourceManager {
    private activeStreams = new Map<string, Stream>();
    
    startStream(streamId: string) {
        // Check device resources before starting
        if (this.checkResourceAvailability()) {
            this.activeStreams.set(streamId, stream);
            return this.initializeStream(streamId);
        } else {
            throw new Error('Insufficient resources for streaming');
        }
    }
    
    stopStream(streamId: string) {
        // Clean up resources properly
        const stream = this.activeStreams.get(streamId);
        if (stream) {
            stream.cleanup();
            this.activeStreams.delete(streamId);
        }
    }
    
    private checkResourceAvailability() {
        return {
            memory: this.getAvailableMemory() > 100, // MB
            cpu: this.getCpuUsage() < 80, // percent
            network: this.getNetworkSpeed() > 1, // Mbps
            battery: this.getBatteryLevel() > 20 // percent
        };
    }
}
```

### 2. Error Handling

```typescript
class StreamErrorHandler {
    handleStreamError(error: StreamError) {
        switch (error.code) {
            case 'NETWORK_ERROR':
                return this.handleNetworkError(error);
            case 'PERMISSION_DENIED':
                return this.handlePermissionError(error);
            case 'RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED':
                return this.handleResourceError(error);
            case 'INVALID_CONFIGURATION':
                return this.handleConfigError(error);
            default:
                return this.handleUnknownError(error);
        }
    }
    
    private async handleNetworkError(error: StreamError) {
        // Implement retry logic with exponential backoff
        const retryDelays = [1000, 2000, 4000, 8000]; // ms
        
        for (const delay of retryDelays) {
            await this.wait(delay);
            try {
                return await this.retryOperation();
            } catch (retryError) {
                console.log(`Retry failed, waiting ${delay}ms...`);
            }
        }
        
        throw new Error('Network error: Unable to establish connection after retries');
    }
}
```

### 3. Performance Monitoring

```typescript
class StreamPerformanceMonitor {
    private metrics = {
        frameRate: 0,
        bitrate: 0,
        latency: 0,
        droppedFrames: 0,
        bufferHealth: 0
    };
    
    startMonitoring(streamId: string) {
        setInterval(() => {
            this.collectMetrics(streamId);
            this.analyzePerformance();
        }, 5000); // Monitor every 5 seconds
    }
    
    private analyzePerformance() {
        if (this.metrics.frameRate < 15) {
            console.warn('Low frame rate detected');
            this.suggestOptimizations('reduce_quality');
        }
        
        if (this.metrics.latency > 10000) {
            console.warn('High latency detected');
            this.suggestOptimizations('optimize_network');
        }
    }
}
```

## Common Patterns

### 1. Stream State Management

```typescript
// Redux-style state management for streams
interface StreamState {
    activeStreams: Record<string, Stream>;
    viewingStream: string | null;
    broadcastingStream: string | null;
    loading: boolean;
    error: string | null;
}

const streamReducer = (state: StreamState, action: StreamAction) => {
    switch (action.type) {
        case 'START_STREAM':
            return {
                ...state,
                broadcastingStream: action.streamId,
                loading: false
            };
        case 'JOIN_STREAM':
            return {
                ...state,
                viewingStream: action.streamId,
                loading: false
            };
        case 'STREAM_ERROR':
            return {
                ...state,
                error: action.error,
                loading: false
            };
        default:
            return state;
    }
};
```

### 2. Observer Pattern for Stream Events

```typescript
class StreamEventEmitter {
    private listeners = new Map<string, Function[]>();
    
    on(event: string, callback: Function) {
        if (!this.listeners.has(event)) {
            this.listeners.set(event, []);
        }
        this.listeners.get(event)!.push(callback);
    }
    
    emit(event: string, data: any) {
        const callbacks = this.listeners.get(event) || [];
        callbacks.forEach(callback => callback(data));
    }
    
    off(event: string, callback: Function) {
        const callbacks = this.listeners.get(event) || [];
        const index = callbacks.indexOf(callback);
        if (index > -1) {
            callbacks.splice(index, 1);
        }
    }
}

// Usage
const streamEvents = new StreamEventEmitter();
streamEvents.on('stream:started', (stream) => {
    console.log('Stream started:', stream.title);
});
```

## Next Steps

Now that you understand streaming basics, explore these related topics:

- **[Video Quality](./video-quality)** - Learn about resolution, bitrates, and quality optimization
- **[Permissions](./permissions)** - Understand camera and microphone permission handling
- **[Lifecycle Management](./lifecycle-management)** - Master stream lifecycle and state management
- **[Broadcasting Setup](../broadcasting/setup)** - Set up broadcasting in your application
- **[Platform-Specific Guides](../platform-specific/platform-comparison)** - Choose the right platform for your needs

## Troubleshooting

Common streaming issues and solutions:

1. **Stream won't start**: Check permissions and network connectivity
2. **Poor quality**: Verify device capabilities and network speed
3. **High latency**: Optimize network settings and reduce buffer size
4. **Dropped frames**: Lower resolution or bitrate settings

For detailed troubleshooting, see our [Troubleshooting Guide](../troubleshooting/overview).

Commit message:

feat: rebrand to social.plus

social-plus-sdk/video-new/core-concepts/streaming-basics.mdx, after:

---
title: "Streaming Basics"
description: "Fundamental concepts of live streaming with social.plus Video SDK including stream lifecycle, states, and core principles"
---

# Streaming Basics

Understanding the fundamentals of live streaming is essential for effectively implementing social.plus Video SDK. This guide covers core concepts, stream lifecycle, and basic principles that apply across all platforms.

## What is Live Streaming?

Live streaming is the real-time transmission of video and audio content over the internet. With social.plus Video SDK, you can:

- **Broadcast**: Create and transmit live video content
- **View**: Watch live streams in real-time
- **Interact**: Engage with streams through comments and reactions
- **Record**: Automatically save streams for later playback

## Stream Architecture

### Basic Components

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Broadcaster] --> B[social.plus Video SDK]
    B --> C[Streaming Server]
    C --> D[CDN Network]
    D --> E[Viewers]
    
    F[Recording Service] --> G[Playback System]
    C --> F
```

**Key Components:**
- **Broadcaster**: The user creating and transmitting the stream
- **Streaming Server**: social.plus infrastructure that processes the stream
- **CDN Network**: Content delivery network for global distribution
- **Viewers**: Users watching the live stream
- **Recording Service**: Automatic recording for playback

## Stream Lifecycle

Understanding the stream lifecycle is crucial for proper implementation:

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Stream States">
### Stream States

Every stream goes through these states:

```typescript
enum StreamStatus {
    IDLE = "idle",           // Stream created but not started
    LIVE = "live",           // Currently broadcasting
    ENDED = "ended",         // Broadcasting stopped, processing
    RECORDED = "recorded"    // Available for playback
}
```

**State Transitions:**

1. **IDLE** → **LIVE**: When broadcasting starts
2. **LIVE** → **ENDED**: When broadcasting stops
3. **ENDED** → **RECORDED**: When processing completes

### State Management

```typescript
// Monitor stream state changes
streamRepository.getStreamById(streamId).listen((stream) => {
    switch (stream.status) {
        case StreamStatus.IDLE:
            console.log('Stream ready to start');
            break;
        case StreamStatus.LIVE:
            console.log('Stream is live');
            notifyViewers();
            break;
        case StreamStatus.ENDED:
            console.log('Stream ended, processing...');
            showProcessingMessage();
            break;
        case StreamStatus.RECORDED:
            console.log('Stream available for playback');
            enablePlayback();
            break;
    }
});
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Lifecycle Events">
### Key Lifecycle Events

Monitor these events for proper stream management:

```typescript
interface StreamEvents {
    onStreamCreated: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamStarted: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamEnded: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamRecorded: (stream: Stream) => void;
    onStreamError: (error: StreamError) => void;
}

// Event handling example
const handleStreamEvents = {
    onStreamCreated: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream created: ${stream.streamId}`);
        // Initialize UI, prepare resources
    },
    
    onStreamStarted: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream started: ${stream.title}`);
        // Notify viewers, update UI
    },
    
    onStreamEnded: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream ended: ${stream.streamId}`);
        // Clean up resources, show end screen
    },
    
    onStreamRecorded: (stream) => {
        console.log(`Stream recorded: ${stream.playbackUrl}`);
        // Enable playback, notify users
    },
    
    onStreamError: (error) => {
        console.error(`Stream error: ${error.message}`);
        // Handle errors, show fallback UI
    }
};
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Core Streaming Concepts

### Resolution and Quality

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Standard Resolutions">
**Supported Resolutions:**

| Quality | Resolution | Aspect Ratio | Bitrate | Use Case |
|---------|------------|--------------|---------|----------|
| **SD** | 480 × 854 | 9:16 | 1.2 Mbps | Mobile, low bandwidth |
| **HD** | 720 × 1280 | 9:16 | 2.5 Mbps | Balanced quality |
| **FHD** | 1080 × 1920 | 9:16 | 5.0 Mbps | High quality |

```typescript
// Set video quality
const videoConfig = {
    resolution: {
        width: 1080,
        height: 1920
    },
    bitrate: 5000000, // 5 Mbps
    frameRate: 30
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Adaptive Streaming">
**Adaptive Bitrate Streaming:**

The SDK automatically adjusts quality based on:
- Network conditions
- Device capabilities
- Viewer preferences

```typescript
// Enable adaptive streaming
const adaptiveConfig = {
    enableAdaptiveBitrate: true,
    qualityLevels: [
        { resolution: { width: 480, height: 854 }, bitrate: 1200000 },
        { resolution: { width: 720, height: 1280 }, bitrate: 2500000 },
        { resolution: { width: 1080, height: 1920 }, bitrate: 5000000 }
    ]
};
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Latency and Performance

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Latency Types">
**Understanding Latency:**

- **Glass-to-Glass**: Complete end-to-end delay (5-15 seconds typical)
- **Network Latency**: Time for data transmission (1-3 seconds)
- **Processing Latency**: Encoding/decoding time (1-2 seconds)
- **Buffer Latency**: Playback buffering (2-10 seconds)

```typescript
// Optimize for low latency
const lowLatencyConfig = {
    bufferSize: 'small',
    keyFrameInterval: 1, // 1 second
    enableFastStart: true,
    prioritizeLatency: true
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Performance Optimization">
**Performance Best Practices:**

```typescript
class StreamOptimizer {
    optimizeForDevice() {
        const deviceCapabilities = this.getDeviceCapabilities();
        
        return {
            resolution: this.selectOptimalResolution(deviceCapabilities),
            bitrate: this.calculateOptimalBitrate(deviceCapabilities),
            frameRate: deviceCapabilities.supportsHighFrameRate ? 30 : 24
        };
    }
    
    private getDeviceCapabilities() {
        return {
            processingPower: this.assessProcessingPower(),
            networkSpeed: this.measureNetworkSpeed(),
            batteryLevel: this.getBatteryLevel(),
            supportsHardwareEncoding: this.checkHardwareSupport()
        };
    }
}
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Stream Management

### Creating Streams

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Basic Stream Creation">
```typescript
// Create a basic stream
const createBasicStream = async () => {
    try {
        const stream = await streamRepository.createStream({
            title: 'My Live Stream',
            description: 'Broadcasting live from my app',
            isSecure: false
        });
        
        console.log('Stream created:', stream.streamId);
        return stream;
    } catch (error) {
        console.error('Failed to create stream:', error);
        throw error;
    }
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Advanced Stream Configuration">
```typescript
// Create stream with advanced configuration
const createAdvancedStream = async () => {
    const streamConfig = {
        title: 'Professional Broadcast',
        description: 'High-quality live streaming event',
        
        // Security settings
        isSecure: true,
        allowedViewers: ['user1', 'user2'], // Optional viewer restriction
        
        // Quality settings
        maxResolution: { width: 1920, height: 1080 },
        targetBitrate: 4000000,
        
        // Recording settings
        enableRecording: true,
        recordingQuality: 'high',
        
        // Metadata
        tags: ['live', 'professional', 'event'],
        category: 'education',
        
        // Scheduling (optional)
        scheduledStartTime: new Date('2024-12-01T10:00:00Z'),
        estimatedDuration: 3600 // 1 hour in seconds
    };
    
    const stream = await streamRepository.createStream(streamConfig);
    return stream;
};
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Stream Discovery

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Querying Streams">
```typescript
// Get streams by status
const getLiveStreams = () => {
    return streamRepository.getStreams()
        .status([StreamStatus.LIVE])
        .sortBy('createdAt', 'desc')
        .limit(20)
        .build();
};

// Get recorded streams
const getRecordedStreams = () => {
    return streamRepository.getStreams()
        .status([StreamStatus.RECORDED])
        .sortBy('viewCount', 'desc')
        .build();
};
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Search and Filtering">
```typescript
// Advanced stream search
const searchStreams = (query: string, filters: StreamFilters) => {
    return streamRepository.getStreams()
        .search(query)
        .tags(filters.tags)
        .category(filters.category)
        .dateRange(filters.startDate, filters.endDate)
        .minViewCount(filters.minViewers)
        .sortBy(filters.sortBy, filters.sortOrder)
        .build();
};

// Usage example
const popularEducationStreams = searchStreams('tutorial', {
    category: 'education',
    tags: ['tutorial', 'learning'],
    minViewers: 100,
    sortBy: 'viewCount',
    sortOrder: 'desc'
});
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Best Practices

### 1. Resource Management

```typescript
class StreamResourceManager {
    private activeStreams = new Map<string, Stream>();
    
    startStream(streamId: string) {
        // Check device resources before starting
        if (this.checkResourceAvailability()) {
            this.activeStreams.set(streamId, stream);
            return this.initializeStream(streamId);
        } else {
            throw new Error('Insufficient resources for streaming');
        }
    }
    
    stopStream(streamId: string) {
        // Clean up resources properly
        const stream = this.activeStreams.get(streamId);
        if (stream) {
            stream.cleanup();
            this.activeStreams.delete(streamId);
        }
    }
    
    private checkResourceAvailability() {
        return {
            memory: this.getAvailableMemory() > 100, // MB
            cpu: this.getCpuUsage() < 80, // percent
            network: this.getNetworkSpeed() > 1, // Mbps
            battery: this.getBatteryLevel() > 20 // percent
        };
    }
}
```

### 2. Error Handling

```typescript
class StreamErrorHandler {
    handleStreamError(error: StreamError) {
        switch (error.code) {
            case 'NETWORK_ERROR':
                return this.handleNetworkError(error);
            case 'PERMISSION_DENIED':
                return this.handlePermissionError(error);
            case 'RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED':
                return this.handleResourceError(error);
            case 'INVALID_CONFIGURATION':
                return this.handleConfigError(error);
            default:
                return this.handleUnknownError(error);
        }
    }
    
    private async handleNetworkError(error: StreamError) {
        // Implement retry logic with exponential backoff
        const retryDelays = [1000, 2000, 4000, 8000]; // ms
        
        for (const delay of retryDelays) {
            await this.wait(delay);
            try {
                return await this.retryOperation();
            } catch (retryError) {
                console.log(`Retry failed, waiting ${delay}ms...`);
            }
        }
        
        throw new Error('Network error: Unable to establish connection after retries');
    }
}
```

### 3. Performance Monitoring

```typescript
class StreamPerformanceMonitor {
    private metrics = {
        frameRate: 0,
        bitrate: 0,
        latency: 0,
        droppedFrames: 0,
        bufferHealth: 0
    };
    
    startMonitoring(streamId: string) {
        setInterval(() => {
            this.collectMetrics(streamId);
            this.analyzePerformance();
        }, 5000); // Monitor every 5 seconds
    }
    
    private analyzePerformance() {
        if (this.metrics.frameRate < 15) {
            console.warn('Low frame rate detected');
            this.suggestOptimizations('reduce_quality');
        }
        
        if (this.metrics.latency > 10000) {
            console.warn('High latency detected');
            this.suggestOptimizations('optimize_network');
        }
    }
}
```

## Common Patterns

### 1. Stream State Management

```typescript
// Redux-style state management for streams
interface StreamState {
    activeStreams: Record<string, Stream>;
    viewingStream: string | null;
    broadcastingStream: string | null;
    loading: boolean;
    error: string | null;
}

const streamReducer = (state: StreamState, action: StreamAction) => {
    switch (action.type) {
        case 'START_STREAM':
            return {
                ...state,
                broadcastingStream: action.streamId,
                loading: false
            };
        case 'JOIN_STREAM':
            return {
                ...state,
                viewingStream: action.streamId,
                loading: false
            };
        case 'STREAM_ERROR':
            return {
                ...state,
                error: action.error,
                loading: false
            };
        default:
            return state;
    }
};
```

### 2. Observer Pattern for Stream Events

```typescript
class StreamEventEmitter {
    private listeners = new Map<string, Function[]>();
    
    on(event: string, callback: Function) {
        if (!this.listeners.has(event)) {
            this.listeners.set(event, []);
        }
        this.listeners.get(event)!.push(callback);
    }
    
    emit(event: string, data: any) {
        const callbacks = this.listeners.get(event) || [];
        callbacks.forEach(callback => callback(data));
    }
    
    off(event: string, callback: Function) {
        const callbacks = this.listeners.get(event) || [];
        const index = callbacks.indexOf(callback);
        if (index > -1) {
            callbacks.splice(index, 1);
        }
    }
}

// Usage
const streamEvents = new StreamEventEmitter();
streamEvents.on('stream:started', (stream) => {
    console.log('Stream started:', stream.title);
});
```

## Next Steps

Now that you understand streaming basics, explore these related topics:

- **[Video Quality](./video-quality)** - Learn about resolution, bitrates, and quality optimization
- **[Permissions](./permissions)** - Understand camera and microphone permission handling
- **[Lifecycle Management](./lifecycle-management)** - Master stream lifecycle and state management
- **[Broadcasting Setup](../broadcasting/setup)** - Set up broadcasting in your application
- **[Platform-Specific Guides](../platform-specific/platform-comparison)** - Choose the right platform for your needs

## Troubleshooting

Common streaming issues and solutions:

1. **Stream won't start**: Check permissions and network connectivity
2. **Poor quality**: Verify device capabilities and network speed
3. **High latency**: Optimize network settings and reduce buffer size
4. **Dropped frames**: Lower resolution or bitrate settings

For detailed troubleshooting, see our [Troubleshooting Guide](../troubleshooting/overview).
