social-plus-sdk/video/typescript-react-native/README.mdx, before:

---
description: >-
  This module allows for richer, interactive experiences by enabling video
  stories and live streaming on your application.
---

# TypeScript (Beta)

## Browser Support

* **Chrome**: 38+
* **Firefox**: 42+
* **Microsoft Edge**: 13+
* **Safari**: 9+
* **Opera**: 25+

social.plus Web SDK probably won't work great in Internet Explorer 11. We generally support the recent versions of major browsers listed above.


Since social.plus Web SDK uses local cache for performance and user experience reasons, server-side rendering is not supported. To use social.plus Web SDK with NextJS, social.plus Web SDK must be imported using [Dynamic Import with SSR disabled](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/dynamic-import#with-no-ssr).

#### React Native

For details on using the TypeScript SDK with **React Native**, refer to these [installation notes](../../../getting-started/installation-and-authentication/install-ts-reactnative-sdk.md#react-native-framework).

##

More than ever, videos are increasingly dominating mobile screens. From fun short-form clips to promote new products to live-streamed talk shows to educate your customers, videos have the potential to transform the way customers experience your brand.

![](<../../../.gitbook/assets/video (1) (1).png>)

Commit message:

fix: fix all broken links

social-plus-sdk/video/typescript-react-native/README.mdx, after:

---
description: >-
  This module allows for richer, interactive experiences by enabling video
  stories and live streaming on your application.
---

# TypeScript (Beta)

## Browser Support

* **Chrome**: 38+
* **Firefox**: 42+
* **Microsoft Edge**: 13+
* **Safari**: 9+
* **Opera**: 25+

social.plus Web SDK probably won't work great in Internet Explorer 11. We generally support the recent versions of major browsers listed above.


Since social.plus Web SDK uses local cache for performance and user experience reasons, server-side rendering is not supported. To use social.plus Web SDK with NextJS, social.plus Web SDK must be imported using [Dynamic Import with SSR disabled](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/dynamic-import#with-no-ssr).

#### React Native

For details on using the TypeScript SDK with **React Native**, see the [Installation & Quick Start guide](/social-plus-sdk/getting-started/overview#react-native) which includes platform requirements and initialization.

##

More than ever, videos are increasingly dominating mobile screens. From fun short-form clips to promote new products to live-streamed talk shows to educate your customers, videos have the potential to transform the way customers experience your brand.

<Info>
Legacy image removed (broken asset path).
</Info>
