uikit/getting-started/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quick Start"
description: "Your complete guide to building social apps with Social+ UIKit - from installation to your first component"
---

Welcome to Social+ UIKit! This guide will get you from zero to a working social app in **under 15 minutes**. Follow these steps to add complete social features to your app.

## Quick Start Guide

<Steps>
  <Step title="Choose Your Platform">
    Select the UIKit that matches your development environment and install:

    <CardGroup cols={2}>
      <Card title="Native Mobile" icon="mobile">
        - [iOS UIKit(Swift/SwiftUI)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#ios) 
        - [Android UIKit(Kotlin/Java)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#android)
      </Card>

      <Card title="Cross-Platform & Web" icon="globe">
        - [React UIKit(Web/TypeScript)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#web-react)
        - [React Native UIKit(Cross-platform)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#react-native)
        - [Flutter UIKit(Cross-platform)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#flutter)
      </Card>
    </CardGroup>

    <Info>
    **Installation Options**: Choose **package installation** for quick setup or **GitHub forking** for complete customization. React Native and Flutter are only available through GitHub forking.
    </Info>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Get Your API Key">
    1. Visit the [Social+ Console](https://console.amity.co)
    2. Navigate to **Applications** → **Your App** → **Settings**
    3. Copy your API key and note your region (US, EU, or SG)

    <Note>
    Keep your API key secure. For production apps, implement proper server-side authentication.
    </Note>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Initialize UIKit & Authenticate a user">
    Install UIKit and set up with your API credentials (for more details, see the [authentication guide](/uikit/getting-started/authentication)):

    <CodeGroup>
    ```swift iOS
    // Add to your AppDelegate or SceneDelegate
    import AmityUIKit

    AmityUIKitManager.setup(
        apiKey: "your-api-key",
        region: .US  // .US, .EU, or .SG
    )

    // Register user when the user accesses the feature
    AmityUIKitManager.registerDevice(
      withUserId: "USER_ID", 
      displayName: "Ali Connors", 
      authToken: "AUTH_TOKEN"
    )
    ```

    ```kotlin Android
    // In your Application class
    class MyApplication : Application() {
        override fun onCreate() {
            super.onCreate()
            
            AmityUIKit4Manager.setup(
                apiKey = "your-api-key",
                endpoint = AmityEndpoint.US
            )
        }
    }

    // Register user when the user accesses the feature
    fun login(userId: String, authToken: String) {
      AmityCoreClient.login(
        userId = userId,
        sessionHandler = object : SessionHandler {
            override fun sessionWillRenewAccessToken(renewal: AccessTokenRenewal) {
                renewal.renew()
                }
              }
          ).authToken(authToken)
        .build()
        .submit()
        .subscribeOn(Schedulers.io())
        .doOnError {
            // Exception
        }
        .subscribe()
      }
    ```

    ```typescript React
    import { AmityUIKitProvider } from '@amityco/ui-kit';
    import '@amityco/ui-kit/dist/index.css';

    function App() {
      return (
        <AmityUiKitProvider
          key={userId}
          apiKey={apiKey}
          userId={userId}
          apiRegion={apiRegion} //eu, us, or sg
          getAuthToken={getAuthToken} //for secure mode authentication
        >
          <div
            style={{
              position: "absolute",
              left: 0,
              top: 0,
              width: "100vw",
              height: "100dvh",
            }}
          >
            <AmityUiKitSocial />
          </div>
        </AmityUiKitProvider>
      );
    }
    ```

    ```jsx React Native
    import {
      AmityUiKitProvider,
      AmityUiKitSocial,
    } from 'amity-react-native-social-ui-kit';

    export default function App() {
      return (
        <AmityUiKitProvider
          apiKey="your-api-key"
          apiRegion="us"
          userId="user123"
          displayName="John Doe"
        >
          <AmityUiKitSocial />
        </AmityUiKitProvider>
      );
    }
    ```

    ```dart Flutter
    import 'package:amity_uikit/amity_uikit.dart';
    // In your main.dart file
    void setup() async {
      await AmityCoreClient.setup(
        option: AmityCoreClientOption.create(
          apiKey: 'apiKey',
          endpoint: AmityEndpoint.SG
        ),
        syncInitialization: true
      );
    }

    // Register user when the user accesses the feature
    void login() async {
      await AmityCoreClient.login('userId', sessionHandler: (AccessTokenRenewal renewal) {
        renewal.renew();
        })
        .displayName('userDisplayName')
        .submit();
        }
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Add Your First Component">
    Start with a social feed or any component that fits your app:

    <CodeGroup>
    ```swift iOS
    let socialHomePage = AmitySocialHomePage()
    let navigationViewController = AmitySwiftUIHostingNavigationController(rootView: socialHomePage)
    ```

    ```kotlin Android
    @Composable
    fun composeSocialHomePage() {
    AmitySocialHomePage()
    }
    
    fun startAnActivity(context: Context) {
      val intent = Intent(
        context,
        AmitySocialHomePageActivity::class.java 
        )
        context.startActivity(intent)
}
    ```

    ```jsx React
    import React from 'react';
    import { AmityUiKitProvider, AmitySocialHomePage } from '@amityco/ui-kit';
    const SampleAmitySocialHomePage = () => {
      return (
        <AmityUiKitProvider
          apiKey="API_KEY"
          apiRegion="API_REGION"
          userId="userId"
          displayName="displayName"
          configs={config} //put your customized config json object
        >
          <AmitySocialHomePage />
        </AmityUiKitProvider>
      );
    };

export default SampleAmitySocialHomePage;
    ```

    ```jsx React Native
    import {
      AmitySocialHomePage,
      AmityUiKitProvider,
      } from 'amity-react-native-social-ui-kit';
      import React from 'react';
      import config from '../../uikit.config.json';
      <AmityUiKitProvider
        configs={config} //put your customized config json object
        apiKey="API_KEY"
        apiRegion="API_REGION"
        userId="userId"
        displayName="displayName"
        apiEndpoint="https://api.{API_REGION}.amity.co"
      />
  behaviour={{
    AmitySocialHomePageBehaviour: { onChooseTab: (tab) => console.log(tab) },
  }}
>
  <AmitySocialHomePage />
</AmityUiKitProvider>;
    ```

    ```dart Flutter
    Widget socialGlobalSearchPage() {
  return AmitySocialHomePage();
}
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Development Paths

Choose your approach based on your timeline and customization needs:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="🚀 Quick MVP" icon="rocket">
    **Timeline: 1-3 days**
    
    - Package installation
    - Default styling
    - Basic authentication
    - Standard components
    
    Perfect for demos and MVPs
  </Card>
  <Card title="🎨 Branded App" icon="palette">
    **Timeline: 1-2 weeks**
    
    - Package with themes
    - Custom brand colors
    - Component configuration
    - Platform testing
    
    Great for production apps
  </Card>
  <Card title="🔧 Full Custom" icon="wrench">
    **Timeline: 2-4 weeks**
    
    - GitHub source forking
    - Code modifications
    - Advanced integrations
    - Complete control
    
    Maximum flexibility
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Platform Support

UIKit supports all major development platforms with consistent APIs and components:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="iOS" icon="apple" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#ios">
    **Native iOS Development**
    - SwiftPM or CocoaPods
    - GitHub source available
    - iOS 16.0+
    - Swift 6.0+
  </Card>
  <Card title="Android" icon="android" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#android">
    **Native Android Development**
    - Gradle package manager
    - GitHub source available
    - API Level 21+
    - Kotlin support
  </Card>
    <Card title="Web (React)" icon="globe" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#web-react">
    **Modern Web Development**
    - NPM package manager
    - GitHub source available
    - React 18+
    - Responsive design
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<CardGroup cols={2}>

  <Card title="Flutter" icon="flutter" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#flutter">
    **Cross-Platform Mobile**
    - GitHub source only
    - Flutter 3.0+
    - Single codebase
  </Card>
    <Card title="React Native" icon="react" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#react-native">
    **Cross-Platform Development**
    - GitHub source only
    - iOS 13.0+ / Android 21+
    - Full customization
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Installation Methods

UIKit offers two installation approaches to match your development needs:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Package Installation" icon="cube">
    **Quick Setup (Recommended)**
    
    ✅ **Platforms**: iOS, Android, Web  
    ❌ **Not available**: Flutter, React Native
    
    - Managed dependencies and updates
    - Minimal configuration required
    - Perfect for most use cases
    - Easy version management
  </Card>
  <Card title="GitHub Fork" icon="code-fork">
    **Complete Customization**
    
    ✅ **All Platforms**: iOS, Android,Web, Flutter, React Native
    
    - Full source code access
    - Custom modifications possible
    - Advanced integrations
    - Maximum flexibility
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Info>
**React Native Special Case**: React Native UIKit is only available through GitHub forking, giving you complete control over the implementation.
</Info>

## Use Case Examples

Choose your starting point based on what you want to build:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Social Media App">
    **Perfect for**: Instagram-like apps, social networks, content sharing platforms
    
    **Start with these components:**
    1. Social Feed - Display user posts and content
    2. User Profiles - User information and social connections
    3. Post Creation - Rich content creation tools
    4. Comments & Reactions - User engagement features
    
    **Timeline**: 1-2 weeks for MVP
  </Tab>
  
<Tab title="Community Platform">
    **Perfect for**: Forums, interest groups, professional networks
    
    **Start with these components:**
    1. Communities - Group creation and management
    2. Community Feed - Group-specific content
    3. Member Management - Roles and permissions
    4. Moderation Tools - Content safety features
    
    **Timeline**: 2-3 weeks for MVP
  </Tab>
  
  <Tab title="Content Creator Platform">
    **Perfect for**: Influencer apps, creator tools, content platforms
    
    **Start with these components:**
    1. Story Creation - Rich multimedia stories
    2. Story Viewing - Immersive story experience
    3. Social Feed - Creator content distribution
    4. User Profiles - Creator showcase pages
    
    **Timeline**: 2-3 weeks for MVP
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Development Approaches

### 🚀 Rapid Prototyping (1-3 days)
**Best for**: MVPs, proof of concepts, demos

```markdown
1. Package installation (iOS/Android/Web/Flutter)
2. Basic authentication setup
3. Drop in pre-built components
4. Use default styling
5. Ship and iterate
```

### 🎨 Brand-Focused Development (1-2 weeks)
**Best for**: Branded apps, custom experiences

```markdown
1. Package installation with custom themes
2. Configure brand colors and styling
3. Customize component behavior
4. Test across platforms
5. Launch with brand consistency
```

### 🔧 Full Customization (2-4 weeks)
**Best for**: Unique experiences, complex requirements

```markdown
1. Fork GitHub repositories
2. Modify source code as needed
3. Implement custom business logic
4. Advanced styling and theming
5. Comprehensive testing and deployment
```

## Prerequisites Checklist

Before starting, ensure you have:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Technical Requirements">
    **Development Environment:**
    - [ ] Platform-specific IDE (Xcode, Android Studio, VS Code)
    - [ ] Git for version control
    - [ ] Node.js (for React/React Native projects)
    
    **Social+ Account:**
    - [ ] Social+ Console access
    - [ ] API key and region information
    - [ ] Application configured in console
  </Tab>
  
  <Tab title="Platform-Specific">
    **iOS Development:**
    - [ ] macOS with Xcode 16+
    - [ ] iOS Simulator or physical device
    - [ ] Apple Developer Account (for device testing)
    
    **Android Development:**
    - [ ] Android Studio 4.0+
    - [ ] Android SDK and emulator
    - [ ] Java 8+ or Kotlin support
    
    **Web Development:**
    - [ ] Node.js 16+ and npm/pnpm
    - [ ] Modern browser for testing
    - [ ] React 18+ knowledge
    
    **React Native:**
    - [ ] React Native development environment
    - [ ] iOS and Android development tools
    - [ ] Metro bundler and debugging tools
    
    **Flutter:**
    - [ ] Flutter SDK 3.0.0 - 4.0.0
    - [ ] Dart 3.0.0+
    - [ ] Platform-specific toolchains
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Support & Resources

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Documentation" icon="book" href="/uikit/components/overview">
    Comprehensive component documentation with examples
  </Card>
  <Card title="Troubleshooting" icon="wrench" href="/uikit/troubleshooting/overview">
    Common issues and solutions for all platforms
  </Card>
  <Card title="Community" icon="users" href="https://community.socialplus.com">
    Connect with other developers and get help
  </Card>
  <Card title="Support" icon="life-ring" href="https://support.socialplus.com">
    Direct support for technical questions
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

---

## Ready to Start?

Choose your next step based on your current status:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="New to UIKit?" icon="play" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation">
    **Start with Installation**
    
    Set up UIKit for your platform and get your development environment ready.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Already Installed?" icon="key" href="/uikit/getting-started/authentication">
    **Configure Authentication**
    
    Set up your API credentials and user authentication system.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Ready to Build?" icon="puzzle-piece" href="/uikit/getting-started/first-steps">
    **Add First Component**
    
    Add your first social component and see UIKit in action.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Tip>
**Quick Win**: If you just want to see UIKit in action, follow our [5-minute setup guide](/uikit/getting-started/installation) and add a social feed to your app!
</Tip>

Commit message:

feat: rebrand to social.plus

uikit/getting-started/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quick Start"
description: "Your complete guide to building social apps with social.plus UIKit - from installation to your first component"
---

Welcome to social.plus UIKit! This guide will get you from zero to a working social app in **under 15 minutes**. Follow these steps to add complete social features to your app.

## Quick Start Guide

<Steps>
  <Step title="Choose Your Platform">
    Select the UIKit that matches your development environment and install:

    <CardGroup cols={2}>
      <Card title="Native Mobile" icon="mobile">
        - [iOS UIKit(Swift/SwiftUI)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#ios) 
        - [Android UIKit(Kotlin/Java)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#android)
      </Card>

      <Card title="Cross-Platform & Web" icon="globe">
        - [React UIKit(Web/TypeScript)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#web-react)
        - [React Native UIKit(Cross-platform)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#react-native)
        - [Flutter UIKit(Cross-platform)](/uikit/getting-started/installation#flutter)
      </Card>
    </CardGroup>

    <Info>
    **Installation Options**: Choose **package installation** for quick setup or **GitHub forking** for complete customization. React Native and Flutter are only available through GitHub forking.
    </Info>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Get Your API Key">
    1. Visit the [social.plus Console](https://console.amity.co)
    2. Navigate to **Applications** → **Your App** → **Settings**
    3. Copy your API key and note your region (US, EU, or SG)

    <Note>
    Keep your API key secure. For production apps, implement proper server-side authentication.
    </Note>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Initialize UIKit & Authenticate a user">
    Install UIKit and set up with your API credentials (for more details, see the [authentication guide](/uikit/getting-started/authentication)):

    <CodeGroup>
    ```swift iOS
    // Add to your AppDelegate or SceneDelegate
    import AmityUIKit

    AmityUIKitManager.setup(
        apiKey: "your-api-key",
        region: .US  // .US, .EU, or .SG
    )

    // Register user when the user accesses the feature
    AmityUIKitManager.registerDevice(
      withUserId: "USER_ID", 
      displayName: "Ali Connors", 
      authToken: "AUTH_TOKEN"
    )
    ```

    ```kotlin Android
    // In your Application class
    class MyApplication : Application() {
        override fun onCreate() {
            super.onCreate()
            
            AmityUIKit4Manager.setup(
                apiKey = "your-api-key",
                endpoint = AmityEndpoint.US
            )
        }
    }

    // Register user when the user accesses the feature
    fun login(userId: String, authToken: String) {
      AmityCoreClient.login(
        userId = userId,
        sessionHandler = object : SessionHandler {
            override fun sessionWillRenewAccessToken(renewal: AccessTokenRenewal) {
                renewal.renew()
                }
              }
          ).authToken(authToken)
        .build()
        .submit()
        .subscribeOn(Schedulers.io())
        .doOnError {
            // Exception
        }
        .subscribe()
      }
    ```

    ```typescript React
    import { AmityUIKitProvider } from '@amityco/ui-kit';
    import '@amityco/ui-kit/dist/index.css';

    function App() {
      return (
        <AmityUiKitProvider
          key={userId}
          apiKey={apiKey}
          userId={userId}
          apiRegion={apiRegion} //eu, us, or sg
          getAuthToken={getAuthToken} //for secure mode authentication
        >
          <div
            style={{
              position: "absolute",
              left: 0,
              top: 0,
              width: "100vw",
              height: "100dvh",
            }}
          >
            <AmityUiKitSocial />
          </div>
        </AmityUiKitProvider>
      );
    }
    ```

    ```jsx React Native
    import {
      AmityUiKitProvider,
      AmityUiKitSocial,
    } from 'amity-react-native-social-ui-kit';

    export default function App() {
      return (
        <AmityUiKitProvider
          apiKey="your-api-key"
          apiRegion="us"
          userId="user123"
          displayName="John Doe"
        >
          <AmityUiKitSocial />
        </AmityUiKitProvider>
      );
    }
    ```

    ```dart Flutter
    import 'package:amity_uikit/amity_uikit.dart';
    // In your main.dart file
    void setup() async {
      await AmityCoreClient.setup(
        option: AmityCoreClientOption.create(
          apiKey: 'apiKey',
          endpoint: AmityEndpoint.SG
        ),
        syncInitialization: true
      );
    }

    // Register user when the user accesses the feature
    void login() async {
      await AmityCoreClient.login('userId', sessionHandler: (AccessTokenRenewal renewal) {
        renewal.renew();
        })
        .displayName('userDisplayName')
        .submit();
        }
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>

  <Step title="Add Your First Component">
    Start with a social feed or any component that fits your app:

    <CodeGroup>
    ```swift iOS
    let socialHomePage = AmitySocialHomePage()
    let navigationViewController = AmitySwiftUIHostingNavigationController(rootView: socialHomePage)
    ```

    ```kotlin Android
    @Composable
    fun composeSocialHomePage() {
    AmitySocialHomePage()
    }
    
    fun startAnActivity(context: Context) {
      val intent = Intent(
        context,
        AmitySocialHomePageActivity::class.java 
        )
        context.startActivity(intent)
}
    ```

    ```jsx React
    import React from 'react';
    import { AmityUiKitProvider, AmitySocialHomePage } from '@amityco/ui-kit';
    const SampleAmitySocialHomePage = () => {
      return (
        <AmityUiKitProvider
          apiKey="API_KEY"
          apiRegion="API_REGION"
          userId="userId"
          displayName="displayName"
          configs={config} //put your customized config json object
        >
          <AmitySocialHomePage />
        </AmityUiKitProvider>
      );
    };

export default SampleAmitySocialHomePage;
    ```

    ```jsx React Native
    import {
      AmitySocialHomePage,
      AmityUiKitProvider,
      } from 'amity-react-native-social-ui-kit';
      import React from 'react';
      import config from '../../uikit.config.json';
      <AmityUiKitProvider
        configs={config} //put your customized config json object
        apiKey="API_KEY"
        apiRegion="API_REGION"
        userId="userId"
        displayName="displayName"
        apiEndpoint="https://api.{API_REGION}.amity.co"
      />
  behaviour={{
    AmitySocialHomePageBehaviour: { onChooseTab: (tab) => console.log(tab) },
  }}
>
  <AmitySocialHomePage />
</AmityUiKitProvider>;
    ```

    ```dart Flutter
    Widget socialGlobalSearchPage() {
  return AmitySocialHomePage();
}
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Development Paths

Choose your approach based on your timeline and customization needs:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="🚀 Quick MVP" icon="rocket">
    **Timeline: 1-3 days**
    
    - Package installation
    - Default styling
    - Basic authentication
    - Standard components
    
    Perfect for demos and MVPs
  </Card>
  <Card title="🎨 Branded App" icon="palette">
    **Timeline: 1-2 weeks**
    
    - Package with themes
    - Custom brand colors
    - Component configuration
    - Platform testing
    
    Great for production apps
  </Card>
  <Card title="🔧 Full Custom" icon="wrench">
    **Timeline: 2-4 weeks**
    
    - GitHub source forking
    - Code modifications
    - Advanced integrations
    - Complete control
    
    Maximum flexibility
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Platform Support

UIKit supports all major development platforms with consistent APIs and components:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="iOS" icon="apple" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#ios">
    **Native iOS Development**
    - SwiftPM or CocoaPods
    - GitHub source available
    - iOS 16.0+
    - Swift 6.0+
  </Card>
  <Card title="Android" icon="android" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#android">
    **Native Android Development**
    - Gradle package manager
    - GitHub source available
    - API Level 21+
    - Kotlin support
  </Card>
    <Card title="Web (React)" icon="globe" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#web-react">
    **Modern Web Development**
    - NPM package manager
    - GitHub source available
    - React 18+
    - Responsive design
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<CardGroup cols={2}>

  <Card title="Flutter" icon="flutter" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#flutter">
    **Cross-Platform Mobile**
    - GitHub source only
    - Flutter 3.0+
    - Single codebase
  </Card>
    <Card title="React Native" icon="react" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation#react-native">
    **Cross-Platform Development**
    - GitHub source only
    - iOS 13.0+ / Android 21+
    - Full customization
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Installation Methods

UIKit offers two installation approaches to match your development needs:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Package Installation" icon="cube">
    **Quick Setup (Recommended)**
    
    ✅ **Platforms**: iOS, Android, Web  
    ❌ **Not available**: Flutter, React Native
    
    - Managed dependencies and updates
    - Minimal configuration required
    - Perfect for most use cases
    - Easy version management
  </Card>
  <Card title="GitHub Fork" icon="code-fork">
    **Complete Customization**
    
    ✅ **All Platforms**: iOS, Android,Web, Flutter, React Native
    
    - Full source code access
    - Custom modifications possible
    - Advanced integrations
    - Maximum flexibility
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Info>
**React Native Special Case**: React Native UIKit is only available through GitHub forking, giving you complete control over the implementation.
</Info>

## Use Case Examples

Choose your starting point based on what you want to build:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Social Media App">
    **Perfect for**: Instagram-like apps, social networks, content sharing platforms
    
    **Start with these components:**
    1. Social Feed - Display user posts and content
    2. User Profiles - User information and social connections
    3. Post Creation - Rich content creation tools
    4. Comments & Reactions - User engagement features
    
    **Timeline**: 1-2 weeks for MVP
  </Tab>
  
<Tab title="Community Platform">
    **Perfect for**: Forums, interest groups, professional networks
    
    **Start with these components:**
    1. Communities - Group creation and management
    2. Community Feed - Group-specific content
    3. Member Management - Roles and permissions
    4. Moderation Tools - Content safety features
    
    **Timeline**: 2-3 weeks for MVP
  </Tab>
  
  <Tab title="Content Creator Platform">
    **Perfect for**: Influencer apps, creator tools, content platforms
    
    **Start with these components:**
    1. Story Creation - Rich multimedia stories
    2. Story Viewing - Immersive story experience
    3. Social Feed - Creator content distribution
    4. User Profiles - Creator showcase pages
    
    **Timeline**: 2-3 weeks for MVP
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Development Approaches

### 🚀 Rapid Prototyping (1-3 days)
**Best for**: MVPs, proof of concepts, demos

```markdown
1. Package installation (iOS/Android/Web/Flutter)
2. Basic authentication setup
3. Drop in pre-built components
4. Use default styling
5. Ship and iterate
```

### 🎨 Brand-Focused Development (1-2 weeks)
**Best for**: Branded apps, custom experiences

```markdown
1. Package installation with custom themes
2. Configure brand colors and styling
3. Customize component behavior
4. Test across platforms
5. Launch with brand consistency
```

### 🔧 Full Customization (2-4 weeks)
**Best for**: Unique experiences, complex requirements

```markdown
1. Fork GitHub repositories
2. Modify source code as needed
3. Implement custom business logic
4. Advanced styling and theming
5. Comprehensive testing and deployment
```

## Prerequisites Checklist

Before starting, ensure you have:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Technical Requirements">
    **Development Environment:**
    - [ ] Platform-specific IDE (Xcode, Android Studio, VS Code)
    - [ ] Git for version control
    - [ ] Node.js (for React/React Native projects)
    
    **social.plus Account:**
    - [ ] social.plus Console access
    - [ ] API key and region information
    - [ ] Application configured in console
  </Tab>
  
  <Tab title="Platform-Specific">
    **iOS Development:**
    - [ ] macOS with Xcode 16+
    - [ ] iOS Simulator or physical device
    - [ ] Apple Developer Account (for device testing)
    
    **Android Development:**
    - [ ] Android Studio 4.0+
    - [ ] Android SDK and emulator
    - [ ] Java 8+ or Kotlin support
    
    **Web Development:**
    - [ ] Node.js 16+ and npm/pnpm
    - [ ] Modern browser for testing
    - [ ] React 18+ knowledge
    
    **React Native:**
    - [ ] React Native development environment
    - [ ] iOS and Android development tools
    - [ ] Metro bundler and debugging tools
    
    **Flutter:**
    - [ ] Flutter SDK 3.0.0 - 4.0.0
    - [ ] Dart 3.0.0+
    - [ ] Platform-specific toolchains
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Support & Resources

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Documentation" icon="book" href="/uikit/components/overview">
    Comprehensive component documentation with examples
  </Card>
  <Card title="Troubleshooting" icon="wrench" href="/uikit/troubleshooting/overview">
    Common issues and solutions for all platforms
  </Card>
  <Card title="Community" icon="users" href="https://community.socialplus.com">
    Connect with other developers and get help
  </Card>
  <Card title="Support" icon="life-ring" href="https://support.socialplus.com">
    Direct support for technical questions
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

---

## Ready to Start?

Choose your next step based on your current status:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="New to UIKit?" icon="play" href="/uikit/getting-started/installation">
    **Start with Installation**
    
    Set up UIKit for your platform and get your development environment ready.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Already Installed?" icon="key" href="/uikit/getting-started/authentication">
    **Configure Authentication**
    
    Set up your API credentials and user authentication system.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Ready to Build?" icon="puzzle-piece" href="/uikit/getting-started/first-steps">
    **Add First Component**
    
    Add your first social component and see UIKit in action.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Tip>
**Quick Win**: If you just want to see UIKit in action, follow our [5-minute setup guide](/uikit/getting-started/installation) and add a social feed to your app!
</Tip>
