analytics-and-moderation/social+-portal/application-management.mdx, before:

---
title: "Application Management"
description: "Comprehensive guide to creating, configuring, and managing Social+ applications through the portal, including regional deployment and organizational settings."
---

# Application Management

The Social+ Portal provides comprehensive application management capabilities, allowing you to create, configure, and manage up to 50 Social+ applications per organization with regional deployment options and advanced organizational controls.

<Info>
Application Management is accessible through the Social+ Portal at [portal.amity.co](https://portal.amity.co). Each organization can manage up to 50 applications with dedicated regional configurations.
</Info>

## Overview

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Application Creation" icon="plus-circle" href="#creating-applications">
    Create new Social+ applications with regional configuration
  </Card>
  <Card title="Application Configuration" icon="cog" href="#application-settings">
    Configure settings, API keys, and integration parameters
  </Card>
  <Card title="Multi-Region Deployment" icon="globe" href="#regional-deployment">
    Deploy applications across multiple geographic regions
  </Card>
  <Card title="Application Analytics" icon="chart-bar" href="#monitoring-analytics">
    Monitor performance, usage, and health metrics
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Accessing Application Management

<Steps>
  <Step title="Portal Login">
    Log in to the Social+ Portal using your preferred authentication method:
    - Email and password
    - Google SSO
    - SAML SSO (Enterprise)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Navigate to Applications">
    Access **"My Applications"** from the main navigation menu
  </Step>
  <Step title="Application Dashboard">
    View all applications with filtering, sorting, and search capabilities
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Creating Applications

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="New Application">
    ### Application Creation Process

    <Steps>
      <Step title="Initiate Creation">
        Click **"Create Application"** button at the top-right of the applications page
      </Step>
      <Step title="Configure Basic Settings">
        Provide application name and description
      </Step>
      <Step title="Select Region">
        Choose the geographic region for deployment and data storage
      </Step>
      <Step title="Review and Confirm">
        Review settings and confirm application creation
      </Step>
    </Steps>

    ### Application Configuration

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Basic Information">
        **Required Fields:**
        - **Application Name**: Unique identifier for your application
        - **Description**: Brief description of the application purpose
        - **Environment**: Development, Staging, or Production
        - **Application Type**: Social, Chat, or Combined

        ```json
        {
          "name": "My Social Platform",
          "description": "Community platform for our organization",
          "environment": "production",
          "type": "combined",
          "region": "us-east-1"
        }
        ```
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Regional Selection">
        **Available Regions:**
        - **US East**: Virginia, USA (us-east-1)
        - **US West**: California, USA (us-west-1)
        - **Europe**: Ireland (eu-west-1)
        - **Singapore**: Asia Pacific (ap-southeast-1)
        - **Indonesia**: Jakarta (ap-southeast-3)

        <Warning>
        **Important**: Region selection is permanent and cannot be changed after application creation. Choose carefully based on your user base location.
        </Warning>

        **Region Selection Guidelines:**
        - Choose regions closest to your primary user base
        - Consider data residency requirements
        - Evaluate latency and performance needs
        - Review compliance and regulatory requirements
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Advanced Configuration">
        **Optional Settings:**
        - **Custom Domain**: Configure custom domain for your application
        - **SSL Certificates**: Upload or configure SSL certificates
        - **Webhook Endpoints**: Set up webhook URLs for real-time events
        - **Rate Limiting**: Configure API rate limits and quotas

        **Security Settings:**
        - API key restrictions
        - IP whitelisting
        - CORS configuration
        - Authentication methods
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Application Limits">
    ### Scaling and Limits

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Application Quotas">
        **Current Limits:**
        - **Maximum Applications**: 50 per organization
        - **Regions per Application**: 1 (permanent selection)
        - **API Keys per Application**: 10
        - **Webhook Endpoints**: 20 per application

        **Quota Management:**
        - Monitor current usage against limits
        - Request quota increases through support
        - Plan for application lifecycle management
        - Optimize resource utilization
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Scaling Options">
        **Horizontal Scaling:**
        - Create multiple applications for different regions
        - Separate applications by environment (dev/staging/prod)
        - Use dedicated applications for different features
        - Implement load balancing strategies

        **Vertical Scaling:**
        - Upgrade subscription plans for higher limits
        - Increase MAU limits per application
        - Add premium features and capabilities
        - Configure advanced performance settings
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Enterprise Features">
        **Custom Configurations:**
        - Dedicated infrastructure
        - Custom application limits
        - Multi-region deployment support
        - Advanced security features
        - Priority support and SLA

        Contact our enterprise team for custom solutions beyond standard limits.
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Managing Applications

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Application Dashboard">
    ### Application Overview

    The Application Management dashboard provides:

    <CardGroup cols={2}>
      <Card title="Application List" icon="list">
        - View all applications in your organization
        - Search by App ID or Name
        - Filter by Plan and Region
        - Sort by various criteria
      </Card>
      <Card title="Quick Actions" icon="bolt">
        - Edit application settings
        - Generate API keys
        - Access console
        - View analytics
      </Card>
      <Card title="Status Monitoring" icon="activity">
        - Application health status
        - Real-time usage metrics
        - Error rate monitoring
        - Performance indicators
      </Card>
      <Card title="Management Tools" icon="tools">
        - Bulk operations
        - Export configurations
        - Backup settings
        - Migration tools
      </Card>
    </CardGroup>

    ### Search and Filtering

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Search Functionality">
        **Search Options:**
        - Search by Application Name
        - Search by App ID
        - Search by Description
        - Full-text search across all fields

        **Search Tips:**
        - Use partial matches for broad searches
        - Combine with filters for precise results
        - Save frequent searches as bookmarks
        - Use wildcards for pattern matching
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Filtering Options">
        **Available Filters:**
        - **Plan Type**: Starter, Professional, Business, Enterprise
        - **Region**: US, Europe, Singapore, Indonesia
        - **Status**: Active, Inactive, Suspended
        - **Environment**: Development, Staging, Production
        - **Created Date**: Date range filtering
        - **Last Modified**: Recent activity filtering
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Sorting Options">
        **Sort Criteria:**
        - Application Name (A-Z, Z-A)
        - Creation Date (Newest, Oldest)
        - Last Modified (Recent, Oldest)
        - Status (Active first, Inactive first)
        - Usage (High to Low, Low to High)
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Editing Applications">
    ### Application Configuration

    <Steps>
      <Step title="Access Application">
        Locate the application in your dashboard and click **"Edit"**
      </Step>
      <Step title="Modify Settings">
        Update application name, description, and configurable settings
      </Step>
      <Step title="Save Changes">
        Review modifications and save your changes
      </Step>
      <Step title="Verify Updates">
        Confirm changes are applied and test functionality
      </Step>
    </Steps>

    ### Editable Properties

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Basic Properties">
        **Modifiable Settings:**
        - Application Name
        - Description
        - Environment tags
        - Contact information
        - Application icon/logo

        **Non-Modifiable Settings:**
        - Region (permanent after creation)
        - Application ID
        - Creation date
        - Organization association
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Advanced Settings">
        **Configuration Options:**
        - API rate limits
        - Webhook configurations
        - Custom domain settings
        - SSL certificate management
        - CORS policies
        - Authentication methods

        **Security Settings:**
        - IP whitelisting
        - API key restrictions
        - Access control policies
        - Audit logging settings
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Integration Settings">
        **Third-Party Integrations:**
        - Analytics platforms
        - Monitoring services
        - Push notification services
        - CDN configurations
        - Database connections
        - External authentication providers
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Regional Deployment

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Region Selection">
    ### Geographic Regions

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="North America">
        **US East (Virginia)**
        - Primary region for North American users
        - Low latency for East Coast users
        - High availability and redundancy
        - Compliance: SOC 2, GDPR

        **US West (California)**
        - Optimal for West Coast users
        - Pacific timezone alignment
        - Reduced latency for Asia-Pacific
        - Same compliance standards
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Europe">
        **EU West (Ireland)**
        - GDPR-compliant data processing
        - European data residency
        - Multi-language support
        - High availability across EU
        - Compliance: GDPR, SOC 2, ISO 27001
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Asia Pacific">
        **Singapore (Southeast Asia)**
        - Regional hub for APAC
        - Low latency for Southeast Asia
        - Multi-currency support
        - Local compliance standards

        **Indonesia (Jakarta)**
        - Dedicated Indonesian infrastructure
        - Local data residency
        - Indonesian language support
        - Regional compliance
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Performance Considerations">
    ### Optimization Guidelines

    <CardGroup cols={2}>
      <Card title="Latency Optimization" icon="gauge-high">
        **Best Practices:**
        - Choose region closest to users
        - Consider network topology
        - Test latency from user locations
        - Monitor performance metrics
      </Card>
      <Card title="Data Compliance" icon="shield-check">
        **Regulatory Requirements:**
        - GDPR for European users
        - Local data residency laws
        - Industry-specific compliance
        - Cross-border data transfer rules
      </Card>
      <Card title="Scalability Planning" icon="chart-line">
        **Growth Considerations:**
        - Anticipate user growth patterns
        - Plan for traffic spikes
        - Consider seasonal variations
        - Prepare for global expansion
      </Card>
      <Card title="Disaster Recovery" icon="shield">
        **Business Continuity:**
        - Backup and recovery plans
        - Failover strategies
        - Data replication policies
        - Service level agreements
      </Card>
    </CardGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Application Settings

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="API Configuration">
    ### API Key Management

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="API Key Generation">
        **Creating API Keys:**
        - Generate secure API keys for each environment
        - Set appropriate permissions and scopes
        - Configure expiration dates and rotation
        - Implement key usage monitoring

        ```bash
        # Example API key configuration
        {
          "keyId": "sk_live_abc123...",
          "environment": "production",
          "permissions": ["read", "write", "admin"],
          "expiresAt": "2024-12-31T23:59:59Z",
          "usage": {
            "dailyLimit": 100000,
            "currentUsage": 45000
          }
        }
        ```
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Security Best Practices">
        **API Key Security:**
        - Store keys securely in environment variables
        - Use different keys for different environments
        - Implement key rotation policies
        - Monitor key usage and detect anomalies
        - Restrict key permissions to minimum required

        **Access Control:**
        - IP whitelisting for production keys
        - Rate limiting per key
        - Audit logging for key usage
        - Automatic key revocation on suspicious activity
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Integration Examples">
        **SDK Integration:**
        ```javascript
        // JavaScript SDK initialization
        import { AmitySDK } from 'amity-sdk';

        const client = AmitySDK.create({
          apiKey: process.env.AMITY_API_KEY,
          region: 'us-east-1',
          environment: 'production'
        });
        ```

        **REST API Usage:**
        ```bash
        curl -X GET "https://api.amity.co/api/v3/users" \
          -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" \
          -H "Content-Type: application/json"
        ```
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Webhooks">
    ### Webhook Configuration

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Webhook Setup">
        **Configuration Steps:**
        - Define webhook endpoint URLs
        - Select event types to monitor
        - Configure authentication methods
        - Set up retry policies and error handling

        **Event Types:**
        - User registration and profile updates
        - Content creation and moderation
        - Community activity and engagement
        - System events and errors
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Webhook Security">
        **Security Measures:**
        - HMAC signature verification
        - IP whitelisting for webhook endpoints
        - HTTPS-only webhook URLs
        - Request timeout configuration
        - Retry logic with exponential backoff

        ```javascript
        // Webhook signature verification
        const crypto = require('crypto');

        function verifyWebhookSignature(payload, signature, secret) {
          const expectedSignature = crypto
            .createHmac('sha256', secret)
            .update(payload, 'utf8')
            .digest('hex');
          
          return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
            Buffer.from(signature),
            Buffer.from(expectedSignature)
          );
        }
        ```
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Webhook Testing">
        **Testing and Validation:**
        - Use webhook testing tools
        - Implement payload validation
        - Test error handling scenarios
        - Monitor webhook delivery success rates
        - Set up alerting for failed deliveries
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Monitoring and Analytics

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Application Health" icon="heart-pulse">
    - Uptime monitoring
    - Response time tracking
    - Error rate analysis
    - Resource utilization
  </Card>
  <Card title="Usage Analytics" icon="chart-bar">
    - Monthly Active Users (MAU)
    - API request volume
    - Feature utilization
    - User engagement metrics
  </Card>
  <Card title="Performance Metrics" icon="speedometer">
    - API response times
    - Database query performance
    - CDN cache hit rates
    - Network latency measurements
  </Card>
  <Card title="Security Monitoring" icon="shield-check">
    - Authentication attempts
    - API key usage patterns
    - Suspicious activity detection
    - Compliance audit trails
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Best Practices

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Application Naming">
    **Naming Conventions:**
    - Use descriptive, meaningful names
    - Include environment identifiers (dev, staging, prod)
    - Follow organizational naming standards
    - Avoid special characters and spaces
    - Keep names concise but informative

    **Examples:**
    - `myapp-production-us`
    - `internal-chat-staging`
    - `community-platform-eu`
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Environment Management">
    **Environment Strategy:**
    - Separate applications for dev/staging/production
    - Use consistent configuration across environments
    - Implement proper promotion workflows
    - Maintain environment-specific API keys
    - Document environment differences

    **Configuration Management:**
    - Use infrastructure-as-code tools
    - Maintain configuration version control
    - Implement automated deployment pipelines
    - Test configurations in staging environments
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Security Management">
    **Security Best Practices:**
    - Regular API key rotation
    - Implement least-privilege access
    - Monitor and audit all activities
    - Use secure communication channels
    - Keep security patches up to date

    **Compliance Considerations:**
    - Understand data residency requirements
    - Implement proper data retention policies
    - Maintain audit trails
    - Regular security assessments
    - Staff security training
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Troubleshooting

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Common Issues">
    **Application Creation Problems:**
    - Region selection errors
    - Name conflicts
    - Quota exceeded
    - Permission issues

    **Solutions:**
    - Verify available regions
    - Use unique application names
    - Check organizational limits
    - Confirm account permissions
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Performance Issues">
    **Latency Problems:**
    - Check selected region vs. user location
    - Monitor network connectivity
    - Analyze API response times
    - Review CDN configuration

    **API Rate Limiting:**
    - Monitor API usage patterns
    - Implement request batching
    - Use appropriate caching strategies
    - Contact support for limit increases
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Integration Issues">
    **API Key Problems:**
    - Verify key validity and permissions
    - Check environment configuration
    - Confirm proper header formatting
    - Monitor key usage limits

    **Webhook Failures:**
    - Verify endpoint availability
    - Check signature validation
    - Review error logs
    - Test with webhook debugging tools
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

---

<Info>
For additional support with application management, consult our [comprehensive documentation](https://docs.amity.co) or contact our support team through the portal.
</Info>

Commit message:

feat: rebrand to social.plus

analytics-and-moderation/social+-portal/application-management.mdx, after:

---
title: "Application Management"
description: "Comprehensive guide to creating, configuring, and managing social.plus applications through the portal, including regional deployment and organizational settings."
---

# Application Management

The social.plus Portal provides comprehensive application management capabilities, allowing you to create, configure, and manage up to 50 social.plus applications per organization with regional deployment options and advanced organizational controls.

<Info>
Application Management is accessible through the social.plus Portal at [portal.amity.co](https://portal.amity.co). Each organization can manage up to 50 applications with dedicated regional configurations.
</Info>

## Overview

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Application Creation" icon="plus-circle" href="#creating-applications">
    Create new social.plus applications with regional configuration
  </Card>
  <Card title="Application Configuration" icon="cog" href="#application-settings">
    Configure settings, API keys, and integration parameters
  </Card>
  <Card title="Multi-Region Deployment" icon="globe" href="#regional-deployment">
    Deploy applications across multiple geographic regions
  </Card>
  <Card title="Application Analytics" icon="chart-bar" href="#monitoring-analytics">
    Monitor performance, usage, and health metrics
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Accessing Application Management

<Steps>
  <Step title="Portal Login">
    Log in to the social.plus Portal using your preferred authentication method:
    - Email and password
    - Google SSO
    - SAML SSO (Enterprise)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Navigate to Applications">
    Access **"My Applications"** from the main navigation menu
  </Step>
  <Step title="Application Dashboard">
    View all applications with filtering, sorting, and search capabilities
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Creating Applications

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="New Application">
    ### Application Creation Process

    <Steps>
      <Step title="Initiate Creation">
        Click **"Create Application"** button at the top-right of the applications page
      </Step>
      <Step title="Configure Basic Settings">
        Provide application name and description
      </Step>
      <Step title="Select Region">
        Choose the geographic region for deployment and data storage
      </Step>
      <Step title="Review and Confirm">
        Review settings and confirm application creation
      </Step>
    </Steps>

    ### Application Configuration

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Basic Information">
        **Required Fields:**
        - **Application Name**: Unique identifier for your application
        - **Description**: Brief description of the application purpose
        - **Environment**: Development, Staging, or Production
        - **Application Type**: Social, Chat, or Combined

        ```json
        {
          "name": "My Social Platform",
          "description": "Community platform for our organization",
          "environment": "production",
          "type": "combined",
          "region": "us-east-1"
        }
        ```
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Regional Selection">
        **Available Regions:**
        - **US East**: Virginia, USA (us-east-1)
        - **US West**: California, USA (us-west-1)
        - **Europe**: Ireland (eu-west-1)
        - **Singapore**: Asia Pacific (ap-southeast-1)
        - **Indonesia**: Jakarta (ap-southeast-3)

        <Warning>
        **Important**: Region selection is permanent and cannot be changed after application creation. Choose carefully based on your user base location.
        </Warning>

        **Region Selection Guidelines:**
        - Choose regions closest to your primary user base
        - Consider data residency requirements
        - Evaluate latency and performance needs
        - Review compliance and regulatory requirements
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Advanced Configuration">
        **Optional Settings:**
        - **Custom Domain**: Configure custom domain for your application
        - **SSL Certificates**: Upload or configure SSL certificates
        - **Webhook Endpoints**: Set up webhook URLs for real-time events
        - **Rate Limiting**: Configure API rate limits and quotas

        **Security Settings:**
        - API key restrictions
        - IP whitelisting
        - CORS configuration
        - Authentication methods
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Application Limits">
    ### Scaling and Limits

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Application Quotas">
        **Current Limits:**
        - **Maximum Applications**: 50 per organization
        - **Regions per Application**: 1 (permanent selection)
        - **API Keys per Application**: 10
        - **Webhook Endpoints**: 20 per application

        **Quota Management:**
        - Monitor current usage against limits
        - Request quota increases through support
        - Plan for application lifecycle management
        - Optimize resource utilization
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Scaling Options">
        **Horizontal Scaling:**
        - Create multiple applications for different regions
        - Separate applications by environment (dev/staging/prod)
        - Use dedicated applications for different features
        - Implement load balancing strategies

        **Vertical Scaling:**
        - Upgrade subscription plans for higher limits
        - Increase MAU limits per application
        - Add premium features and capabilities
        - Configure advanced performance settings
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Enterprise Features">
        **Custom Configurations:**
        - Dedicated infrastructure
        - Custom application limits
        - Multi-region deployment support
        - Advanced security features
        - Priority support and SLA

        Contact our enterprise team for custom solutions beyond standard limits.
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Managing Applications

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Application Dashboard">
    ### Application Overview

    The Application Management dashboard provides:

    <CardGroup cols={2}>
      <Card title="Application List" icon="list">
        - View all applications in your organization
        - Search by App ID or Name
        - Filter by Plan and Region
        - Sort by various criteria
      </Card>
      <Card title="Quick Actions" icon="bolt">
        - Edit application settings
        - Generate API keys
        - Access console
        - View analytics
      </Card>
      <Card title="Status Monitoring" icon="activity">
        - Application health status
        - Real-time usage metrics
        - Error rate monitoring
        - Performance indicators
      </Card>
      <Card title="Management Tools" icon="tools">
        - Bulk operations
        - Export configurations
        - Backup settings
        - Migration tools
      </Card>
    </CardGroup>

    ### Search and Filtering

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Search Functionality">
        **Search Options:**
        - Search by Application Name
        - Search by App ID
        - Search by Description
        - Full-text search across all fields

        **Search Tips:**
        - Use partial matches for broad searches
        - Combine with filters for precise results
        - Save frequent searches as bookmarks
        - Use wildcards for pattern matching
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Filtering Options">
        **Available Filters:**
        - **Plan Type**: Starter, Professional, Business, Enterprise
        - **Region**: US, Europe, Singapore, Indonesia
        - **Status**: Active, Inactive, Suspended
        - **Environment**: Development, Staging, Production
        - **Created Date**: Date range filtering
        - **Last Modified**: Recent activity filtering
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Sorting Options">
        **Sort Criteria:**
        - Application Name (A-Z, Z-A)
        - Creation Date (Newest, Oldest)
        - Last Modified (Recent, Oldest)
        - Status (Active first, Inactive first)
        - Usage (High to Low, Low to High)
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Editing Applications">
    ### Application Configuration

    <Steps>
      <Step title="Access Application">
        Locate the application in your dashboard and click **"Edit"**
      </Step>
      <Step title="Modify Settings">
        Update application name, description, and configurable settings
      </Step>
      <Step title="Save Changes">
        Review modifications and save your changes
      </Step>
      <Step title="Verify Updates">
        Confirm changes are applied and test functionality
      </Step>
    </Steps>

    ### Editable Properties

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Basic Properties">
        **Modifiable Settings:**
        - Application Name
        - Description
        - Environment tags
        - Contact information
        - Application icon/logo

        **Non-Modifiable Settings:**
        - Region (permanent after creation)
        - Application ID
        - Creation date
        - Organization association
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Advanced Settings">
        **Configuration Options:**
        - API rate limits
        - Webhook configurations
        - Custom domain settings
        - SSL certificate management
        - CORS policies
        - Authentication methods

        **Security Settings:**
        - IP whitelisting
        - API key restrictions
        - Access control policies
        - Audit logging settings
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Integration Settings">
        **Third-Party Integrations:**
        - Analytics platforms
        - Monitoring services
        - Push notification services
        - CDN configurations
        - Database connections
        - External authentication providers
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Regional Deployment

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Region Selection">
    ### Geographic Regions

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="North America">
        **US East (Virginia)**
        - Primary region for North American users
        - Low latency for East Coast users
        - High availability and redundancy
        - Compliance: SOC 2, GDPR

        **US West (California)**
        - Optimal for West Coast users
        - Pacific timezone alignment
        - Reduced latency for Asia-Pacific
        - Same compliance standards
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Europe">
        **EU West (Ireland)**
        - GDPR-compliant data processing
        - European data residency
        - Multi-language support
        - High availability across EU
        - Compliance: GDPR, SOC 2, ISO 27001
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Asia Pacific">
        **Singapore (Southeast Asia)**
        - Regional hub for APAC
        - Low latency for Southeast Asia
        - Multi-currency support
        - Local compliance standards

        **Indonesia (Jakarta)**
        - Dedicated Indonesian infrastructure
        - Local data residency
        - Indonesian language support
        - Regional compliance
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Performance Considerations">
    ### Optimization Guidelines

    <CardGroup cols={2}>
      <Card title="Latency Optimization" icon="gauge-high">
        **Best Practices:**
        - Choose region closest to users
        - Consider network topology
        - Test latency from user locations
        - Monitor performance metrics
      </Card>
      <Card title="Data Compliance" icon="shield-check">
        **Regulatory Requirements:**
        - GDPR for European users
        - Local data residency laws
        - Industry-specific compliance
        - Cross-border data transfer rules
      </Card>
      <Card title="Scalability Planning" icon="chart-line">
        **Growth Considerations:**
        - Anticipate user growth patterns
        - Plan for traffic spikes
        - Consider seasonal variations
        - Prepare for global expansion
      </Card>
      <Card title="Disaster Recovery" icon="shield">
        **Business Continuity:**
        - Backup and recovery plans
        - Failover strategies
        - Data replication policies
        - Service level agreements
      </Card>
    </CardGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Application Settings

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="API Configuration">
    ### API Key Management

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="API Key Generation">
        **Creating API Keys:**
        - Generate secure API keys for each environment
        - Set appropriate permissions and scopes
        - Configure expiration dates and rotation
        - Implement key usage monitoring

        ```bash
        # Example API key configuration
        {
          "keyId": "sk_live_abc123...",
          "environment": "production",
          "permissions": ["read", "write", "admin"],
          "expiresAt": "2024-12-31T23:59:59Z",
          "usage": {
            "dailyLimit": 100000,
            "currentUsage": 45000
          }
        }
        ```
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Security Best Practices">
        **API Key Security:**
        - Store keys securely in environment variables
        - Use different keys for different environments
        - Implement key rotation policies
        - Monitor key usage and detect anomalies
        - Restrict key permissions to minimum required

        **Access Control:**
        - IP whitelisting for production keys
        - Rate limiting per key
        - Audit logging for key usage
        - Automatic key revocation on suspicious activity
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Integration Examples">
        **SDK Integration:**
        ```javascript
        // JavaScript SDK initialization
        import { AmitySDK } from 'amity-sdk';

        const client = AmitySDK.create({
          apiKey: process.env.AMITY_API_KEY,
          region: 'us-east-1',
          environment: 'production'
        });
        ```

        **REST API Usage:**
        ```bash
        curl -X GET "https://api.amity.co/api/v3/users" \
          -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" \
          -H "Content-Type: application/json"
        ```
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Webhooks">
    ### Webhook Configuration

    <AccordionGroup>
      <Accordion title="Webhook Setup">
        **Configuration Steps:**
        - Define webhook endpoint URLs
        - Select event types to monitor
        - Configure authentication methods
        - Set up retry policies and error handling

        **Event Types:**
        - User registration and profile updates
        - Content creation and moderation
        - Community activity and engagement
        - System events and errors
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Webhook Security">
        **Security Measures:**
        - HMAC signature verification
        - IP whitelisting for webhook endpoints
        - HTTPS-only webhook URLs
        - Request timeout configuration
        - Retry logic with exponential backoff

        ```javascript
        // Webhook signature verification
        const crypto = require('crypto');

        function verifyWebhookSignature(payload, signature, secret) {
          const expectedSignature = crypto
            .createHmac('sha256', secret)
            .update(payload, 'utf8')
            .digest('hex');
          
          return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
            Buffer.from(signature),
            Buffer.from(expectedSignature)
          );
        }
        ```
      </Accordion>

      <Accordion title="Webhook Testing">
        **Testing and Validation:**
        - Use webhook testing tools
        - Implement payload validation
        - Test error handling scenarios
        - Monitor webhook delivery success rates
        - Set up alerting for failed deliveries
      </Accordion>
    </AccordionGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Monitoring and Analytics

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Application Health" icon="heart-pulse">
    - Uptime monitoring
    - Response time tracking
    - Error rate analysis
    - Resource utilization
  </Card>
  <Card title="Usage Analytics" icon="chart-bar">
    - Monthly Active Users (MAU)
    - API request volume
    - Feature utilization
    - User engagement metrics
  </Card>
  <Card title="Performance Metrics" icon="speedometer">
    - API response times
    - Database query performance
    - CDN cache hit rates
    - Network latency measurements
  </Card>
  <Card title="Security Monitoring" icon="shield-check">
    - Authentication attempts
    - API key usage patterns
    - Suspicious activity detection
    - Compliance audit trails
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Best Practices

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Application Naming">
    **Naming Conventions:**
    - Use descriptive, meaningful names
    - Include environment identifiers (dev, staging, prod)
    - Follow organizational naming standards
    - Avoid special characters and spaces
    - Keep names concise but informative

    **Examples:**
    - `myapp-production-us`
    - `internal-chat-staging`
    - `community-platform-eu`
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Environment Management">
    **Environment Strategy:**
    - Separate applications for dev/staging/production
    - Use consistent configuration across environments
    - Implement proper promotion workflows
    - Maintain environment-specific API keys
    - Document environment differences

    **Configuration Management:**
    - Use infrastructure-as-code tools
    - Maintain configuration version control
    - Implement automated deployment pipelines
    - Test configurations in staging environments
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Security Management">
    **Security Best Practices:**
    - Regular API key rotation
    - Implement least-privilege access
    - Monitor and audit all activities
    - Use secure communication channels
    - Keep security patches up to date

    **Compliance Considerations:**
    - Understand data residency requirements
    - Implement proper data retention policies
    - Maintain audit trails
    - Regular security assessments
    - Staff security training
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Troubleshooting

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Common Issues">
    **Application Creation Problems:**
    - Region selection errors
    - Name conflicts
    - Quota exceeded
    - Permission issues

    **Solutions:**
    - Verify available regions
    - Use unique application names
    - Check organizational limits
    - Confirm account permissions
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Performance Issues">
    **Latency Problems:**
    - Check selected region vs. user location
    - Monitor network connectivity
    - Analyze API response times
    - Review CDN configuration

    **API Rate Limiting:**
    - Monitor API usage patterns
    - Implement request batching
    - Use appropriate caching strategies
    - Contact support for limit increases
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Integration Issues">
    **API Key Problems:**
    - Verify key validity and permissions
    - Check environment configuration
    - Confirm proper header formatting
    - Monitor key usage limits

    **Webhook Failures:**
    - Verify endpoint availability
    - Check signature validation
    - Review error logs
    - Test with webhook debugging tools
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

---

<Info>
For additional support with application management, consult our [comprehensive documentation](https://docs.amity.co) or contact our support team through the portal.
</Info>
