social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/user-management/roles-permissions.mdx, before:

---
title: "Roles & Permissions"
description: "Implement role-based access control with Social+ SDK's comprehensive permission system for moderation and user management."
---

Social+ SDK provides a comprehensive role-based access control system that allows you to manage user permissions across your social features. This system enables you to create hierarchical moderation structures and fine-grained access control.

## Overview

<Info>
**Permission-Based System**: Social+ determines user capabilities based on their assigned roles. Each role carries specific permissions that control what users can do within your application.
</Info>

### Key Concepts

<CardGroup cols={3}>
<Card title="Roles" icon="user-tag">
**User Classifications**  
Predefined or custom user types with specific permission sets
</Card>

<Card title="Permissions" icon="key">
**Granular Controls**  
Specific actions users can perform (edit, delete, ban, etc.)
</Card>

<Card title="Hierarchy" icon="sitemap">
**Structured Access**  
Roles have different levels of access and moderation privileges
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Permission Checking

Use the `hasPermission` method to check if the current user can perform specific actions:

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
// Check if user has permission to delete messages in a channel
if client.hasPermission(.deleteMessage, in: channelId) {
    // User can delete messages
    showDeleteOption()
} else {
    // User cannot delete messages
    hideDeleteOption()
}
```

```kotlin Android
// Check if user has permission to ban users
if (AmityCoreClient.hasPermission(AmityPermission.BAN_CHANNEL_USER, channelId)) {
    // User can ban other users
    showBanOption()
} else {
    // User cannot ban users
    hideBanOption()
}
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Check if user has permission to edit community posts
const canEdit = await client.hasPermission({
    permission: 'EDIT_COMMUNITY_POST',
    communityId: 'community123'
});

if (canEdit) {
    // Show edit controls
    showEditButton();
}
```

```dart Flutter
// Check if user has permission to mute users
final canMute = await AmityCoreClient.hasPermission(
    permission: AmityPermission.MUTE_CHANNEL_USER,
    channelId: channelId
);

if (canMute) {
    // Show mute option
    showMuteOption();
}
```
</CodeGroup>


### Role Descriptions

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title="Member (Default)" icon="user">
**Basic user role with no moderation privileges**

**Capabilities:**
- Create content (posts, comments, messages)
- Participate in communities and channels
- Report inappropriate content
- Manage their own profile

**Limitations:**
- Cannot moderate other users
- Subject to all rate limits and filters
- Cannot access moderation tools
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Channel Moderator" icon="shield">
**Channel-specific moderation privileges**

**Capabilities:**
- Edit and delete messages in assigned channels
- Mute and ban users from specific channels
- Manage channel settings and users
- Add/remove users from channels

**Scope:**
- Limited to specific channels they moderate
- Cannot moderate communities or global content
- Subject to rate limits (not exempt)
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Community Moderator" icon="users">
**Community-wide moderation privileges**

**Capabilities:**
- Manage community posts and comments
- Edit and delete community content
- Manage community users and settings
- Create and manage community categories

**Scope:**
- Full access within assigned communities
- Cannot moderate channels or global content
- Subject to some rate limits
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Super Moderator" icon="bolt">
**Advanced moderation with exemptions**

**Capabilities:**
- All channel and community moderation privileges
- Exempt from content filters and rate limits
- Cannot be muted or banned by other moderators
- Global access to moderation tools

**Exemptions:**
- Content filters and auto-moderation
- Rate limits and posting restrictions
- Muting and temporary bans
- Blacklist and whitelist restrictions
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Global Admin (Admin Only)" icon="crown">
**Complete system access and control**

**Capabilities:**
- All moderation privileges across the platform
- Access to Social+ Console
- Create, edit, and delete roles
- Ban and edit any user globally
- Manage network-wide settings

**Special Notes:**
- Cannot be assigned to regular users
- Only available to platform administrators
- Complete exemption from all restrictions
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

<Warning>
**Global Admin Role**: This role cannot be assigned to regular users and is reserved for platform administrators only.
</Warning>

## Permission Matrix

### User Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>SP Console Access</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Create, Edit, & Delete Roles</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ban & Edit User</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from filters</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from rate limits</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from mute</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from ban</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from blacklist & whitelist</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from repetition check</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Channel Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Edit, Ban, Add, Remove, & Mute Channel User*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Mute Channel*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete Message*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit Channel Rate Limit*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ban, Mute, Rate limit, & Manage Users</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mute Channels</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rate Limit Channels</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Messages</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Global Access</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Community Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Create, delete, Edit Community Categories</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete Communities*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit, Add, Ban, & Remove Community Users*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit, Delete, & Review Community Posts*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete Community Comments*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Community</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Community Stories</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### User Feed, Posts, Comments, & Notifications

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete User Feed Post</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete User Feed Comment</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Posts & Comments</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Network Settings</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

<Note>
*CommunityV3 - Refers to the latest community management system version
</Note>

## Detailed Permission List

### Channel Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>MUTE_CHANNEL</code></td>
<td>Can mute/unmute channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>CLOSE_CHANNEL</code></td>
<td>Can close channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_CHANNEL</code></td>
<td>Can edit channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_CHANNEL_RATELIMIT</code></td>
<td>Can set rate limit of channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_MESSAGE</code></td>
<td>Can edit all messages</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_MESSAGE</code></td>
<td>Can delete all messages</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>BAN_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can ban/unban user from channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>MUTE_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can mute/unmute user in channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>ADD_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can add users to channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>REMOVE_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can remove user from channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can edit users in channel</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### User Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>BAN_USER</code></td>
<td>Can global ban/unban user</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_USER</code></td>
<td>Can edit users</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>ASSIGN_USER_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can assign role to users</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### User Feed Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_USER_FEED_POST</code></td>
<td>Can edit all posts on user feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_USER_FEED_POST</code></td>
<td>Can delete all posts in user feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_USER_FEED_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can edit all comments on user feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_USER_FEED_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can delete all comments in user feed</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Community Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>ADD_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can add users to community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>REMOVE_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can remove users from community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can edit users in community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>BAN_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can ban users in community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>MUTE_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can mute users in community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY</code></td>
<td>Can edit community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY</code></td>
<td>Can delete community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_POST</code></td>
<td>Can edit all posts in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY_POST</code></td>
<td>Can delete all posts in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can edit all comments in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can delete all comments in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>REVIEW_COMMUNITY_POST</code></td>
<td>Can review community post</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>MANAGE_COMMUNITY_STORY</code></td>
<td>Can create and delete community story</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Community Category Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>CREATE_COMMUNITY_CATEGORY</code></td>
<td>Can create new community categories</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_CATEGORY</code></td>
<td>Can edit community categories</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY_CATEGORY</code></td>
<td>Can delete community categories</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Network Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>CREATE_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can create new roles</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can edit roles</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can delete roles</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Notification Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>MANAGE_NOTIFICATION_NETWORK_SETTING</code></td>
<td>Can manage notification settings</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Role Assignment

### Through Admin Console

1. **Access Social+ Console** with admin privileges
2. **Navigate to User Management** section
3. **Select the user** you want to modify
4. **Assign or modify roles** from available options
5. **Save changes** to apply new permissions

<Note>
📖 **Detailed Instructions**: Refer to [Moderation, Roles & Privileges](https://docs.amity.co/console/moderation) in the Console documentation.
</Note>

### Through Update User API

Use the Update Role API to modify user roles programmatically [here](/api-reference/user/update-a-user).

## Custom Roles

<Info>
**Unlimited Flexibility**: You can create custom roles and assign specific permissions in the Social+ Console to match your application's unique requirements.
</Info>

### Creating Custom Roles

1. **Access Admin Console** → **Roles & Permissions**
2. **Create New Role** with a descriptive name
3. **Select Permissions** from the available list
4. **Save and Assign** to users as needed

### Best Practices for Custom Roles

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Role Design" icon="palette">
**Do:**
- Create roles based on user responsibilities
- Use descriptive role names
- Plan for role hierarchy
- Consider future permissions

**Don't:**
- Create too many similar roles
- Use confusing role names
- Overlap permissions unnecessarily
- Forget to document role purposes
</Card>

<Card title="Permission Assignment" icon="check-circle">
**Do:**
- Grant minimum necessary permissions
- Group related permissions together
- Test role functionality thoroughly
- Document permission reasoning

**Don't:**
- Over-privilege roles
- Create security gaps
- Ignore permission dependencies
- Rush role creation
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Moderation Scaling

<Info>
**No Moderator Limits**: There is no limit to the number of moderators in a community. If there are 100 members in a community, all 100 members can be promoted to moderator roles if needed.
</Info>

### Moderation Strategy

<Steps>
<Step title="Start Small">
Begin with a few trusted moderators and expand based on community growth
</Step>

<Step title="Delegate Responsibly">
Assign community moderators for specific areas (channels, topics, regions)
</Step>

<Step title="Monitor Performance">
Track moderation effectiveness and adjust roles as needed
</Step>

<Step title="Scale Up">
Promote active, helpful community members to moderator roles
</Step>
</Steps>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="User Operations" icon="user-gear" href="/social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/user-management/user-operations/create-user">
Learn how to query, search, and manage users with repositories
</Card>

<Card title="Content Moderation" icon="shield-check" href="/social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/user-management/content-moderation">
Implement community safety and content moderation tools
</Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

feat: rebrand to social.plus

social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/user-management/roles-permissions.mdx, after:

---
title: "Roles & Permissions"
description: "Implement role-based access control with social.plus SDK's comprehensive permission system for moderation and user management."
---

social.plus SDK provides a comprehensive role-based access control system that allows you to manage user permissions across your social features. This system enables you to create hierarchical moderation structures and fine-grained access control.

## Overview

<Info>
**Permission-Based System**: social.plus determines user capabilities based on their assigned roles. Each role carries specific permissions that control what users can do within your application.
</Info>

### Key Concepts

<CardGroup cols={3}>
<Card title="Roles" icon="user-tag">
**User Classifications**  
Predefined or custom user types with specific permission sets
</Card>

<Card title="Permissions" icon="key">
**Granular Controls**  
Specific actions users can perform (edit, delete, ban, etc.)
</Card>

<Card title="Hierarchy" icon="sitemap">
**Structured Access**  
Roles have different levels of access and moderation privileges
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Permission Checking

Use the `hasPermission` method to check if the current user can perform specific actions:

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
// Check if user has permission to delete messages in a channel
if client.hasPermission(.deleteMessage, in: channelId) {
    // User can delete messages
    showDeleteOption()
} else {
    // User cannot delete messages
    hideDeleteOption()
}
```

```kotlin Android
// Check if user has permission to ban users
if (AmityCoreClient.hasPermission(AmityPermission.BAN_CHANNEL_USER, channelId)) {
    // User can ban other users
    showBanOption()
} else {
    // User cannot ban users
    hideBanOption()
}
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Check if user has permission to edit community posts
const canEdit = await client.hasPermission({
    permission: 'EDIT_COMMUNITY_POST',
    communityId: 'community123'
});

if (canEdit) {
    // Show edit controls
    showEditButton();
}
```

```dart Flutter
// Check if user has permission to mute users
final canMute = await AmityCoreClient.hasPermission(
    permission: AmityPermission.MUTE_CHANNEL_USER,
    channelId: channelId
);

if (canMute) {
    // Show mute option
    showMuteOption();
}
```
</CodeGroup>


### Role Descriptions

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title="Member (Default)" icon="user">
**Basic user role with no moderation privileges**

**Capabilities:**
- Create content (posts, comments, messages)
- Participate in communities and channels
- Report inappropriate content
- Manage their own profile

**Limitations:**
- Cannot moderate other users
- Subject to all rate limits and filters
- Cannot access moderation tools
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Channel Moderator" icon="shield">
**Channel-specific moderation privileges**

**Capabilities:**
- Edit and delete messages in assigned channels
- Mute and ban users from specific channels
- Manage channel settings and users
- Add/remove users from channels

**Scope:**
- Limited to specific channels they moderate
- Cannot moderate communities or global content
- Subject to rate limits (not exempt)
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Community Moderator" icon="users">
**Community-wide moderation privileges**

**Capabilities:**
- Manage community posts and comments
- Edit and delete community content
- Manage community users and settings
- Create and manage community categories

**Scope:**
- Full access within assigned communities
- Cannot moderate channels or global content
- Subject to some rate limits
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Super Moderator" icon="bolt">
**Advanced moderation with exemptions**

**Capabilities:**
- All channel and community moderation privileges
- Exempt from content filters and rate limits
- Cannot be muted or banned by other moderators
- Global access to moderation tools

**Exemptions:**
- Content filters and auto-moderation
- Rate limits and posting restrictions
- Muting and temporary bans
- Blacklist and whitelist restrictions
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Global Admin (Admin Only)" icon="crown">
**Complete system access and control**

**Capabilities:**
- All moderation privileges across the platform
- Access to social.plus Console
- Create, edit, and delete roles
- Ban and edit any user globally
- Manage network-wide settings

**Special Notes:**
- Cannot be assigned to regular users
- Only available to platform administrators
- Complete exemption from all restrictions
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

<Warning>
**Global Admin Role**: This role cannot be assigned to regular users and is reserved for platform administrators only.
</Warning>

## Permission Matrix

### User Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>SP Console Access</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Create, Edit, & Delete Roles</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ban & Edit User</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from filters</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from rate limits</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from mute</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from ban</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from blacklist & whitelist</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Exempt from repetition check</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Channel Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Edit, Ban, Add, Remove, & Mute Channel User*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Mute Channel*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete Message*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit Channel Rate Limit*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ban, Mute, Rate limit, & Manage Users</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mute Channels</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rate Limit Channels</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Messages</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Global Access</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Community Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Create, delete, Edit Community Categories</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete Communities*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit, Add, Ban, & Remove Community Users*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit, Delete, & Review Community Posts*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete Community Comments*</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Community</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Community Stories</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### User Feed, Posts, Comments, & Notifications

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Global Admin</th>
<th>Super Moderator</th>
<th>Community Moderator</th>
<th>Channel Moderator</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete User Feed Post</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Edit & Delete User Feed Comment</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Posts & Comments</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>❌</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Manage Network Settings</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
<td>✅</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

<Note>
*CommunityV3 - Refers to the latest community management system version
</Note>

## Detailed Permission List

### Channel Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>MUTE_CHANNEL</code></td>
<td>Can mute/unmute channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>CLOSE_CHANNEL</code></td>
<td>Can close channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_CHANNEL</code></td>
<td>Can edit channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_CHANNEL_RATELIMIT</code></td>
<td>Can set rate limit of channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_MESSAGE</code></td>
<td>Can edit all messages</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_MESSAGE</code></td>
<td>Can delete all messages</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>BAN_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can ban/unban user from channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>MUTE_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can mute/unmute user in channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>ADD_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can add users to channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>REMOVE_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can remove user from channel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_CHANNEL_USER</code></td>
<td>Can edit users in channel</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### User Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>BAN_USER</code></td>
<td>Can global ban/unban user</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_USER</code></td>
<td>Can edit users</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>ASSIGN_USER_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can assign role to users</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### User Feed Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_USER_FEED_POST</code></td>
<td>Can edit all posts on user feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_USER_FEED_POST</code></td>
<td>Can delete all posts in user feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_USER_FEED_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can edit all comments on user feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_USER_FEED_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can delete all comments in user feed</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Community Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>ADD_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can add users to community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>REMOVE_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can remove users from community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can edit users in community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>BAN_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can ban users in community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>MUTE_COMMUNITY_USER</code></td>
<td>Can mute users in community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY</code></td>
<td>Can edit community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY</code></td>
<td>Can delete community</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_POST</code></td>
<td>Can edit all posts in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY_POST</code></td>
<td>Can delete all posts in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can edit all comments in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY_COMMENT</code></td>
<td>Can delete all comments in community feed</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>REVIEW_COMMUNITY_POST</code></td>
<td>Can review community post</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>MANAGE_COMMUNITY_STORY</code></td>
<td>Can create and delete community story</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Community Category Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>CREATE_COMMUNITY_CATEGORY</code></td>
<td>Can create new community categories</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_COMMUNITY_CATEGORY</code></td>
<td>Can edit community categories</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_COMMUNITY_CATEGORY</code></td>
<td>Can delete community categories</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Network Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>CREATE_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can create new roles</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>EDIT_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can edit roles</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>DELETE_ROLE</code></td>
<td>Can delete roles</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

### Notification Permissions

<div className="overflow-x-auto">
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Permission</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>MANAGE_NOTIFICATION_NETWORK_SETTING</code></td>
<td>Can manage notification settings</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>

## Role Assignment

### Through Admin Console

1. **Access social.plus Console** with admin privileges
2. **Navigate to User Management** section
3. **Select the user** you want to modify
4. **Assign or modify roles** from available options
5. **Save changes** to apply new permissions

<Note>
📖 **Detailed Instructions**: Refer to [Moderation, Roles & Privileges](https://docs.amity.co/console/moderation) in the Console documentation.
</Note>

### Through Update User API

Use the Update Role API to modify user roles programmatically [here](/api-reference/user/update-a-user).

## Custom Roles

<Info>
**Unlimited Flexibility**: You can create custom roles and assign specific permissions in the social.plus Console to match your application's unique requirements.
</Info>

### Creating Custom Roles

1. **Access Admin Console** → **Roles & Permissions**
2. **Create New Role** with a descriptive name
3. **Select Permissions** from the available list
4. **Save and Assign** to users as needed

### Best Practices for Custom Roles

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Role Design" icon="palette">
**Do:**
- Create roles based on user responsibilities
- Use descriptive role names
- Plan for role hierarchy
- Consider future permissions

**Don't:**
- Create too many similar roles
- Use confusing role names
- Overlap permissions unnecessarily
- Forget to document role purposes
</Card>

<Card title="Permission Assignment" icon="check-circle">
**Do:**
- Grant minimum necessary permissions
- Group related permissions together
- Test role functionality thoroughly
- Document permission reasoning

**Don't:**
- Over-privilege roles
- Create security gaps
- Ignore permission dependencies
- Rush role creation
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Moderation Scaling

<Info>
**No Moderator Limits**: There is no limit to the number of moderators in a community. If there are 100 members in a community, all 100 members can be promoted to moderator roles if needed.
</Info>

### Moderation Strategy

<Steps>
<Step title="Start Small">
Begin with a few trusted moderators and expand based on community growth
</Step>

<Step title="Delegate Responsibly">
Assign community moderators for specific areas (channels, topics, regions)
</Step>

<Step title="Monitor Performance">
Track moderation effectiveness and adjust roles as needed
</Step>

<Step title="Scale Up">
Promote active, helpful community members to moderator roles
</Step>
</Steps>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="User Operations" icon="user-gear" href="/social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/user-management/user-operations/create-user">
Learn how to query, search, and manage users with repositories
</Card>

<Card title="Content Moderation" icon="shield-check" href="/social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/user-management/content-moderation">
Implement community safety and content moderation tools
</Card>
</CardGroup>
