social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/content-handling/files-images-and-videos/video-handling.mdx, before:

---
title: "Video Handling"
description: "Comprehensive video handling with Social+ SDK including upload, transcoding, streaming, and multi-resolution support"
---

Social+ provides advanced video handling capabilities with automatic transcoding, multi-resolution support, and streaming optimization. This guide covers everything from basic uploads to advanced video processing workflows.

<Note>
**Video Limits**: Maximum file size is 2GB per video. Supported formats: MP4, MOV, and AVI with automatic transcoding to optimized MP4 versions.
</Note>

## Key Features

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Automatic Transcoding" icon="wand-magic-sparkles">
    Multiple resolutions (360p, 480p, 720p, 1080p) generated automatically
  </Card>
  <Card title="Progress Tracking" icon="spinner">
    During uploading and transcoding with real-time updates
  </Card>
  <Card title="Thumbnail Generation" icon="image">
    Automatic video preview thumbnails for better user experience
  </Card>
  <Card title="Global CDN Delivery" icon="globe">
    Fast streaming performance worldwide with format optimization
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Video Properties & Transcoding

Each uploaded video undergoes automatic transcoding and provides comprehensive metadata:

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Core Properties" icon="video">
    | Property | Type | Description |
    |----------|------|-------------|
    | `fileId` | `string` | Unique identifier for the video |
    | `fileUrl` | `string` | Original video file URL (maintains original format) |
    | `videoUrl` | `object` | URLs for different transcoded resolutions |
    | `status` | `enum` | Transcoding status: `uploaded`, `transcoding`, `transcoded`, `error` |
  </Accordion>
  
  <Accordion title="Metadata & Attributes" icon="tags">
    | Property | Type | Description |
    |----------|------|-------------|
    | `attributes` | `object` | File metadata including name, size, and type |
    | `metadata` | `object` | Video-specific data including dimensions and duration |
    | `thumbnailFileId` | `string` | ID of the generated thumbnail image |
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

### Available Resolutions

<Info>
Social+ automatically generates multiple resolutions for adaptive streaming across all devices:
</Info>

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Original Quality" icon="crown">
    Same resolution as uploaded (in optimized MP4 format)
  </Card>
  <Card title="1080p Full HD" icon="display">
    1920×1080 (horizontal) / 1080×1920 (vertical)
  </Card>
  <Card title="720p HD" icon="tv">
    1280×720 (horizontal) / 720×1280 (vertical)
  </Card>
  <Card title="480p & 360p" icon="mobile">
    Optimized for mobile and slower connections
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Tip>
**Format Note**: The `fileUrl` provides the original file format, while `videoUrl.original` provides the same content in optimized MP4 format.
</Tip>

## Video Upload & Processing

Upload videos with automatic transcoding, progress tracking, and format optimization. The SDK handles video compression and generates multiple resolutions for adaptive streaming.

<Tip>
Videos are automatically transcoded to multiple resolutions in the background. Use the `status` property to track transcoding progress.
</Tip>

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
// Note: videoUrl must be a local file url.
func uploadVideoExample(videoUrl: URL) async {
    do {
        let video = try await fileRepository.uploadVideo(with: videoUrl, progress: { progress in
            print("uploading progress: \(progress)")
        })
        print("uploading finish successfully: fileId \(String(describing: video.fileId))")
    } catch {
        // Handle error here
    }
}
```

```kotlin Android
fun uploadVideo(videoUri: Uri) {
    AmityCoreClient.newFileRepository()
        .uploadVideo(uri = videoUri, contentFeedType = AmityContentFeedType.POST)
        .doOnNext { uploadResult: AmityUploadResult<AmityVideo> ->
            when (uploadResult) {
                is AmityUploadResult.PROGRESS -> {
                    // upload progress event
                    val progress = uploadResult.getUploadInfo().getProgressPercentage()
                }
                is AmityUploadResult.COMPLETE -> {
                    // completion event
                    val image: AmityVideo = uploadResult.getFile()
                }
                is AmityUploadResult.ERROR -> {
                    // error event
                    val error = AmityError.from(uploadResult.getError())
                }
                is AmityUploadResult.CANCELLED -> {
                    // cancelled upload event
                }
            }
        }
        .subscribe()
}
```

```typescript TypeScript
import React from 'react';
import { FileRepository, ContentFeedType } from '@amityco/ts-sdk';

const VideoUpload = () => {
  const changeHandler = async (event: React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>) => {
    if (!event.target.files) {
      return;
    }

    const data = new FormData();
    data.append('files', event.target.files[0]);

    /*
    Possible `feedType` value for createVideo:
    - ContentFeedType.STORY or 'story'
    - ContentFeedType.CLIP or 'clip'
    - ContentFeedType.CHAT or 'chat'
    - ContentFeedType.POST or 'post'
     */
    const feedType = ContentFeedType.POST;

    const didVideoUpload = await FileRepository.uploadVideo(data, feedType);

    return didVideoUpload;
  };

  return <input type="file" name="file" onChange={changeHandler} />;
};
```

```dart Flutter
void uploadVideo(File uploadingVideo) async {
  AmityCoreClient.newFileRepository()
      .uploadVideo(uploadingVideo , feedtype: AmityContentFeedType.POST)
      .stream
      .listen((AmityUploadResult<AmityVideo> amityResult) {
    amityResult.when(
      progress: (uploadInfo, cancelToken) {},
      complete: (file) {
        //handle result
        AmityVideo uploadedVideo = file;
      },
      error: (error) {
        final AmityException amityException = error;
        // handle error
      },
      cancel: () {
        // handle cancel request
      },
    );
  });
}
```

</CodeGroup>

## Video Retrieval & Streaming

Access transcoded videos in multiple resolutions for optimal playback experience. Social+ provides adaptive streaming capabilities and thumbnail generation.

<Info>
Choose the appropriate resolution based on your user's device and connection speed for optimal streaming performance.
</Info>

### Getting Video URLs

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
let fileRepository = AmityFileRepository(client: client)

do {
    // Get AmityRawFile
    let rawFile = try await fileRepository.getFile(fileId: "<video-file-id>")
    
    // Transform AmityRawFile to specific AmityVideoData.
    // If AmityRawFile is not the type `video`, it will return nil.
    if rawFile.type == .video {
        guard let videoData = rawFile.mapToVideoData() else {
            return
        }
        
        let resolutions: [AmityVideoResolution] = Array(videoData.videoUrls.keys).sorted()
        
        for resolution in resolutions {
            if let fileUrl = videoData.getVideo(resolution: resolution) {
                // url of each video
                // Download the video by using fileDownload api or
                // You can use any network client to download the video.
                let path = try await fileRepository.downloadFile(fromURL: fileUrl)
                print("Video file downloaded to local path: \(path)")
            }
        }
    }
} catch {
    // Handle error here
}
```

```kotlin Android
fun getVideo(
    fileRepository: AmityFileRepository,
    fileId: String
) {
    fileRepository.getFile(fileId = fileId)
        .doOnSuccess { rawFile: AmityRawFile ->
            if (rawFile.getFileType() == AmityFileType.VIDEO) {
                // convert result to video
                val video: AmityVideo? = rawFile.asAmityVideo() // null for incorrect file type
                video?.let {
                    // available resolution options for UI rendering
                    val resolutions: List<AmityVideoResolution> = video.getResolutions()
                    // Possible resolutions are:
                    // AmityVideoResolution.ORIGINAL
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_1080
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_720
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_480
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_360
                    resolutions.forEach { resolution ->
                        //url for each video resolution
                        val videoUrl = it.getVideoUrl(resolution)
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        .doOnError {
            // Exception
        }
        .subscribe()
}
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { FileRepository } from '@amityco/ts-sdk';

function getVideo() {
  const videoFile = FileRepository.getFile('fileId');

  return videoFile;
}
```

```dart Flutter
void getVideo(AmityPost post) {
  final AmityPostData? amityPostData = post.data;
  if (amityPostData != null) {
    final videoData = amityPostData as VideoData;
    //for high quality video
    videoData.getVideo(AmityVideoQuality.HIGH).then((AmityVideo video) {
      //handle result
    });
    //for low quality video
    videoData.getVideo(AmityVideoQuality.LOW).then((AmityVideo video) {
      //handle result
    });
  }
}
```
</CodeGroup>

### Accessing Video Thumbnails

Social+ automatically generates video thumbnails for preview purposes. Thumbnails are created during the transcoding process and provide visual previews for video content.

<Warning>
Thumbnails are generated asynchronously during transcoding. Check the transcoding status before accessing thumbnail URLs.
</Warning>

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
let fileRepository = AmityFileRepository(client: client)
    ...
    
    func downloadVideoThumbnailAsData(from message: AmityMessage) {
        guard let thumbnailFileId = message.data?["thumbnailFileId"] as? String,
              !thumbnailFileId.isEmpty,
              let imageInfo = message.getVideoThumbnailImageInfo() else { return }
        
        
        // Download from url and return saved image url.
        fileRepository.downloadImage(fromURL: imageInfo.fileURL, size: .small) { imageUrl, error in
            // Handle image url and error.
        }
    }
    
    func downloadVideoThumbnailAsUIImage(from message: AmityMessage) {
        guard let thumbnailFileId = message.data?["thumbnailFileId"] as? String,
              !thumbnailFileId.isEmpty,
              let imageInfo = message.getVideoThumbnailImageInfo() else { return }
        
        // Download from url and return image.
        fileRepository.downloadImageAsData(fromURL: imageInfo.fileURL, size: .small) { image, size, error in
            // Handle image and error.
        }
    }
```

```kotlin Android
//Example of retrieving video thumbnail from a post
    fun getVideoThumbnail(post: AmityPost) {
        val data = post.getData()
        if (data is AmityPost.Data.VIDEO) {
            //retrieving an amity image from a video
            val thumbnail: AmityImage? = data.getThumbnailImage()
            //retrieving a large image url from an amity image
            //the possible sizes are SMALL, MEDIUM, LARGE
            val largeImage: String? = thumbnail?.getUrl(AmityImage.Size.LARGE)
        }
    }
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { FileRepository } from '@amityco/ts-sdk';

function getVideoImageThumbnail() {
  const videoImageThumbnail = FileRepository.fileUrlWithSize('fileId', 'medium');

  return videoImageThumbnail;
}
```
</CodeGroup>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Image Handling" icon="image" href="./image-handling">
    Learn about image processing, compression, and optimization
  </Card>
  <Card title="File Management" icon="folder" href="./file">
    Explore comprehensive file handling and storage capabilities
  </Card>
  <Card title="Live Streaming" icon="broadcast-tower" href="../../video-new/broadcasting/overview">
    Discover real-time video broadcasting and streaming features
  </Card>
  <Card title="Posts with Videos" icon="pen-to-square" href="../social/posts">
    Learn how to create engaging posts with video content
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

feat: rebrand to social.plus

social-plus-sdk/core-concepts/content-handling/files-images-and-videos/video-handling.mdx, after:

---
title: "Video Handling"
description: "Comprehensive video handling with social.plus SDK including upload, transcoding, streaming, and multi-resolution support"
---

social.plus provides advanced video handling capabilities with automatic transcoding, multi-resolution support, and streaming optimization. This guide covers everything from basic uploads to advanced video processing workflows.

<Note>
**Video Limits**: Maximum file size is 2GB per video. Supported formats: MP4, MOV, and AVI with automatic transcoding to optimized MP4 versions.
</Note>

## Key Features

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Automatic Transcoding" icon="wand-magic-sparkles">
    Multiple resolutions (360p, 480p, 720p, 1080p) generated automatically
  </Card>
  <Card title="Progress Tracking" icon="spinner">
    During uploading and transcoding with real-time updates
  </Card>
  <Card title="Thumbnail Generation" icon="image">
    Automatic video preview thumbnails for better user experience
  </Card>
  <Card title="Global CDN Delivery" icon="globe">
    Fast streaming performance worldwide with format optimization
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

## Video Properties & Transcoding

Each uploaded video undergoes automatic transcoding and provides comprehensive metadata:

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Core Properties" icon="video">
    | Property | Type | Description |
    |----------|------|-------------|
    | `fileId` | `string` | Unique identifier for the video |
    | `fileUrl` | `string` | Original video file URL (maintains original format) |
    | `videoUrl` | `object` | URLs for different transcoded resolutions |
    | `status` | `enum` | Transcoding status: `uploaded`, `transcoding`, `transcoded`, `error` |
  </Accordion>
  
  <Accordion title="Metadata & Attributes" icon="tags">
    | Property | Type | Description |
    |----------|------|-------------|
    | `attributes` | `object` | File metadata including name, size, and type |
    | `metadata` | `object` | Video-specific data including dimensions and duration |
    | `thumbnailFileId` | `string` | ID of the generated thumbnail image |
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

### Available Resolutions

<Info>
social.plus automatically generates multiple resolutions for adaptive streaming across all devices:
</Info>

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Original Quality" icon="crown">
    Same resolution as uploaded (in optimized MP4 format)
  </Card>
  <Card title="1080p Full HD" icon="display">
    1920×1080 (horizontal) / 1080×1920 (vertical)
  </Card>
  <Card title="720p HD" icon="tv">
    1280×720 (horizontal) / 720×1280 (vertical)
  </Card>
  <Card title="480p & 360p" icon="mobile">
    Optimized for mobile and slower connections
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Tip>
**Format Note**: The `fileUrl` provides the original file format, while `videoUrl.original` provides the same content in optimized MP4 format.
</Tip>

## Video Upload & Processing

Upload videos with automatic transcoding, progress tracking, and format optimization. The SDK handles video compression and generates multiple resolutions for adaptive streaming.

<Tip>
Videos are automatically transcoded to multiple resolutions in the background. Use the `status` property to track transcoding progress.
</Tip>

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
// Note: videoUrl must be a local file url.
func uploadVideoExample(videoUrl: URL) async {
    do {
        let video = try await fileRepository.uploadVideo(with: videoUrl, progress: { progress in
            print("uploading progress: \(progress)")
        })
        print("uploading finish successfully: fileId \(String(describing: video.fileId))")
    } catch {
        // Handle error here
    }
}
```

```kotlin Android
fun uploadVideo(videoUri: Uri) {
    AmityCoreClient.newFileRepository()
        .uploadVideo(uri = videoUri, contentFeedType = AmityContentFeedType.POST)
        .doOnNext { uploadResult: AmityUploadResult<AmityVideo> ->
            when (uploadResult) {
                is AmityUploadResult.PROGRESS -> {
                    // upload progress event
                    val progress = uploadResult.getUploadInfo().getProgressPercentage()
                }
                is AmityUploadResult.COMPLETE -> {
                    // completion event
                    val image: AmityVideo = uploadResult.getFile()
                }
                is AmityUploadResult.ERROR -> {
                    // error event
                    val error = AmityError.from(uploadResult.getError())
                }
                is AmityUploadResult.CANCELLED -> {
                    // cancelled upload event
                }
            }
        }
        .subscribe()
}
```

```typescript TypeScript
import React from 'react';
import { FileRepository, ContentFeedType } from '@amityco/ts-sdk';

const VideoUpload = () => {
  const changeHandler = async (event: React.ChangeEvent<HTMLInputElement>) => {
    if (!event.target.files) {
      return;
    }

    const data = new FormData();
    data.append('files', event.target.files[0]);

    /*
    Possible `feedType` value for createVideo:
    - ContentFeedType.STORY or 'story'
    - ContentFeedType.CLIP or 'clip'
    - ContentFeedType.CHAT or 'chat'
    - ContentFeedType.POST or 'post'
     */
    const feedType = ContentFeedType.POST;

    const didVideoUpload = await FileRepository.uploadVideo(data, feedType);

    return didVideoUpload;
  };

  return <input type="file" name="file" onChange={changeHandler} />;
};
```

```dart Flutter
void uploadVideo(File uploadingVideo) async {
  AmityCoreClient.newFileRepository()
      .uploadVideo(uploadingVideo , feedtype: AmityContentFeedType.POST)
      .stream
      .listen((AmityUploadResult<AmityVideo> amityResult) {
    amityResult.when(
      progress: (uploadInfo, cancelToken) {},
      complete: (file) {
        //handle result
        AmityVideo uploadedVideo = file;
      },
      error: (error) {
        final AmityException amityException = error;
        // handle error
      },
      cancel: () {
        // handle cancel request
      },
    );
  });
}
```

</CodeGroup>

## Video Retrieval & Streaming

Access transcoded videos in multiple resolutions for optimal playback experience. social.plus provides adaptive streaming capabilities and thumbnail generation.

<Info>
Choose the appropriate resolution based on your user's device and connection speed for optimal streaming performance.
</Info>

### Getting Video URLs

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
let fileRepository = AmityFileRepository(client: client)

do {
    // Get AmityRawFile
    let rawFile = try await fileRepository.getFile(fileId: "<video-file-id>")
    
    // Transform AmityRawFile to specific AmityVideoData.
    // If AmityRawFile is not the type `video`, it will return nil.
    if rawFile.type == .video {
        guard let videoData = rawFile.mapToVideoData() else {
            return
        }
        
        let resolutions: [AmityVideoResolution] = Array(videoData.videoUrls.keys).sorted()
        
        for resolution in resolutions {
            if let fileUrl = videoData.getVideo(resolution: resolution) {
                // url of each video
                // Download the video by using fileDownload api or
                // You can use any network client to download the video.
                let path = try await fileRepository.downloadFile(fromURL: fileUrl)
                print("Video file downloaded to local path: \(path)")
            }
        }
    }
} catch {
    // Handle error here
}
```

```kotlin Android
fun getVideo(
    fileRepository: AmityFileRepository,
    fileId: String
) {
    fileRepository.getFile(fileId = fileId)
        .doOnSuccess { rawFile: AmityRawFile ->
            if (rawFile.getFileType() == AmityFileType.VIDEO) {
                // convert result to video
                val video: AmityVideo? = rawFile.asAmityVideo() // null for incorrect file type
                video?.let {
                    // available resolution options for UI rendering
                    val resolutions: List<AmityVideoResolution> = video.getResolutions()
                    // Possible resolutions are:
                    // AmityVideoResolution.ORIGINAL
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_1080
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_720
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_480
                    // AmityVideoResolution.RES_360
                    resolutions.forEach { resolution ->
                        //url for each video resolution
                        val videoUrl = it.getVideoUrl(resolution)
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        .doOnError {
            // Exception
        }
        .subscribe()
}
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { FileRepository } from '@amityco/ts-sdk';

function getVideo() {
  const videoFile = FileRepository.getFile('fileId');

  return videoFile;
}
```

```dart Flutter
void getVideo(AmityPost post) {
  final AmityPostData? amityPostData = post.data;
  if (amityPostData != null) {
    final videoData = amityPostData as VideoData;
    //for high quality video
    videoData.getVideo(AmityVideoQuality.HIGH).then((AmityVideo video) {
      //handle result
    });
    //for low quality video
    videoData.getVideo(AmityVideoQuality.LOW).then((AmityVideo video) {
      //handle result
    });
  }
}
```
</CodeGroup>

### Accessing Video Thumbnails

social.plus automatically generates video thumbnails for preview purposes. Thumbnails are created during the transcoding process and provide visual previews for video content.

<Warning>
Thumbnails are generated asynchronously during transcoding. Check the transcoding status before accessing thumbnail URLs.
</Warning>

<CodeGroup>
```swift iOS
let fileRepository = AmityFileRepository(client: client)
    ...
    
    func downloadVideoThumbnailAsData(from message: AmityMessage) {
        guard let thumbnailFileId = message.data?["thumbnailFileId"] as? String,
              !thumbnailFileId.isEmpty,
              let imageInfo = message.getVideoThumbnailImageInfo() else { return }
        
        
        // Download from url and return saved image url.
        fileRepository.downloadImage(fromURL: imageInfo.fileURL, size: .small) { imageUrl, error in
            // Handle image url and error.
        }
    }
    
    func downloadVideoThumbnailAsUIImage(from message: AmityMessage) {
        guard let thumbnailFileId = message.data?["thumbnailFileId"] as? String,
              !thumbnailFileId.isEmpty,
              let imageInfo = message.getVideoThumbnailImageInfo() else { return }
        
        // Download from url and return image.
        fileRepository.downloadImageAsData(fromURL: imageInfo.fileURL, size: .small) { image, size, error in
            // Handle image and error.
        }
    }
```

```kotlin Android
//Example of retrieving video thumbnail from a post
    fun getVideoThumbnail(post: AmityPost) {
        val data = post.getData()
        if (data is AmityPost.Data.VIDEO) {
            //retrieving an amity image from a video
            val thumbnail: AmityImage? = data.getThumbnailImage()
            //retrieving a large image url from an amity image
            //the possible sizes are SMALL, MEDIUM, LARGE
            val largeImage: String? = thumbnail?.getUrl(AmityImage.Size.LARGE)
        }
    }
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { FileRepository } from '@amityco/ts-sdk';

function getVideoImageThumbnail() {
  const videoImageThumbnail = FileRepository.fileUrlWithSize('fileId', 'medium');

  return videoImageThumbnail;
}
```
</CodeGroup>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Image Handling" icon="image" href="./image-handling">
    Learn about image processing, compression, and optimization
  </Card>
  <Card title="File Management" icon="folder" href="./file">
    Explore comprehensive file handling and storage capabilities
  </Card>
  <Card title="Live Streaming" icon="broadcast-tower" href="../../video-new/broadcasting/overview">
    Discover real-time video broadcasting and streaming features
  </Card>
  <Card title="Posts with Videos" icon="pen-to-square" href="../social/posts">
    Learn how to create engaging posts with video content
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
